v3.0/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/deployment.md, before:

---
title: TiDB Lightning Deployment
summary: Deploy TiDB Lightning to quickly import large amounts of new data.
category: reference
---

# TiDB Lightning Deployment

This document describes the hardware requirements of TiDB Lightning on separate deployment and mixed deployment, and how to deploy it using Ansible or manually.

## Notes

Before starting TiDB Lightning, note that:

- During the import process, the cluster cannot provide normal services.
- If `tidb-lightning` crashes, the cluster is left in "import mode". Forgetting to switch back to "normal mode" can lead to a high amount of uncompacted data on the TiKV cluster, and cause abnormally high CPU usage and stall. You can manually switch the cluster back to "normal mode" via the `tidb-lightning-ctl` tool:

    ```sh
    bin/tidb-lightning-ctl -switch-mode=normal
    ```

- TiDB Lightning is required to have the following privileges in the downstream TiDB:

    | Privilege | Scope |
    |----:|:------|
    | SELECT | Tables |
    | INSERT | Tables |
    | UPDATE | Tables |
    | DELETE | Tables |
    | CREATE | Databases, tables |
    | DROP | Databases, tables |
    | ALTER | Tables |

    If the `checksum` configuration item of TiDB Lightning is set to `true`, then the admin user privileges in the downstream TiDB need to be granted to TiDB Lightning.

## Hardware requirements

`tidb-lightning` and `tikv-importer` are both resource-intensive programs. It is recommended to deploy them into two separate machines.

To achieve the best performance, it is recommended to use the following hardware configuration:

- `tidb-lightning`:

    - 32+ logical cores CPU
    - An SSD large enough to store the entire data source, preferring higher read speed
    - 10 Gigabit network card (capable of transferring at ≥300 MB/s)
    - `tidb-lightning` fully consumes all CPU cores when running,
        and deploying on a dedicated machine is highly recommended.
        If not possible, `tidb-lightning` could be deployed together with other components like
        `tidb-server`, and the CPU usage could be limited via the `region-concurrency` setting.

- `tikv-importer`:

    - 32+ logical cores CPU
    - 40 GB+ memory
    - 1 TB+ SSD, preferring higher IOPS (≥ 8000 is recommended)
        * The disk should be larger than the total size of the top N tables, where N = max(index-concurrency, table-concurrency).
    - 10 Gigabit network card (capable of transferring at ≥300 MB/s)
    - `tikv-importer` fully consumes all CPU, disk I/O and network bandwidth when running,
        and deploying on a dedicated machine is strongly recommended.

If you have sufficient machines, you can deploy multiple Lightning/Importer servers, with each working on a distinct set of tables, to import the data in parallel.

> **Note:**
>
> - `tidb-lightning` is a CPU intensive program. In an environment with mixed components, the resources allocated to `tidb-lightning` must be limited. Otherwise, other components might not be able to run. It is recommended to set the `region-concurrency` to 75% of CPU logical cores. For instance, if the CPU has 32 logical cores, you can set the `region-concurrency` to 24.
>
> - `tikv-importer` stores intermediate data on the RAM to speed up the import process. The typical memory usage can be calculated by using **(`max-open-engines` × `write-buffer-size` × 2) + (`num-import-jobs` × `region-split-size` × 2)**. If the speed of writing to disk is slow, the memory usage could be even higher due to buffering.

Additionally, the target TiKV cluster should have enough space to absorb the new data.
Besides [the standard requirements](/how-to/deploy/hardware-recommendations.md), the total free space of the target TiKV cluster should be larger than **Size of data source × [Number of replicas](/faq/tidb.md#is-the-number-of-replicas-in-each-region-configurable-if-yes-how-to-configure-it) × 2**.

With the default replica count of 3, this means the total free space should be at least 6 times the size of data source.

## Export data

Use the [`mydumper` tool](/reference/tools/mydumper.md) to export data from MySQL by using the following command:

```sh
./bin/mydumper -h 127.0.0.1 -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -F 256 -B test -T t1,t2 --skip-tz-utc -o /data/my_database/
```

In this command,

- `-B test`: means the data is exported from the `test` database.
- `-T t1,t2`: means only the `t1` and `t2` tables are exported.
- `-t 16`: means 16 threads are used to export the data.
- `-F 256`: means a table is partitioned into chunks and one chunk is 256 MB.
- `--skip-tz-utc`: the purpose of adding this parameter is to ignore the inconsistency of time zone setting between MySQL and the data exporting machine, and to disable automatic conversion.

If the data source consists of CSV files, see [CSV support](/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/csv.md) for configuration.

## Deploy TiDB Lightning

This section describes two deployment methods of TiDB Lightning:

- [Deploy TiDB Lightning using Ansible](#deploy-tidb-lightning-using-ansible)
- [Deploy TiDB Lightning manually](#deploy-tidb-lightning-manually)

### Deploy TiDB Lightning using Ansible

You can deploy TiDB Lightning using Ansible together with the [deployment of the TiDB cluster itself using Ansible](/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/ansible.md).

1. Edit `inventory.ini` to add the addresses of the `tidb-lightning` and `tikv-importer` servers.

    ```ini
    ...

    [importer_server]
    192.168.20.9

    [lightning_server]
    192.168.20.10

    ...
    ```

2. Configure these tools by editing the settings under `group_vars/*.yml`.

    * `group_vars/all.yml`

        ```yaml
        ...
        # The listening port of tikv-importer. Should be open to the tidb-lightning server.
        tikv_importer_port: 8287
        ...
        ```

    * `group_vars/lightning_server.yml`

        ```yaml
        ---
        dummy:

        # The listening port for metrics gathering. Should be open to the monitoring servers.
        tidb_lightning_pprof_port: 8289

        # The file path that tidb-lightning reads the data source (Mydumper SQL dump or CSV) from.
        data_source_dir: "{{ deploy_dir }}/mydumper"
        ```

    * `group_vars/importer_server.yml`

        ```yaml
        ---
        dummy:

        # The file path to store engine files. Should reside on a partition with a large capacity.
        import_dir: "{{ deploy_dir }}/data.import"
        ```

3. Deploy the cluster.

    ```sh
    ansible-playbook bootstrap.yml
    ansible-playbook deploy.yml
    ```

4. Mount the data source to the path specified in the `data_source_dir` setting.

5. Log in to the `tikv-importer` server, and manually run the following command to start Importer.

    ```sh
    scripts/start_importer.sh
    ```

6. Log in to the `tidb-lightning` server, and manually run the following command to start Lightning and import the data into the TiDB cluster.

    ```sh
    scripts/start_lightning.sh
    ```

7. After completion, run `scripts/stop_importer.sh` on the `tikv-importer` server to stop Importer.

### Deploy TiDB Lightning manually

#### Step 1: Deploy a TiDB cluster

Before importing data, you need to have a deployed TiDB cluster, with the cluster version 2.0.9 or above. It is highly recommended to use the latest version.

You can find deployment instructions in [TiDB Quick Start Guide](https://pingcap.com/docs/QUICKSTART/).

#### Step 2: Download the TiDB Lightning installation package

Download the TiDB Lightning package (choose the same version as that of the TiDB cluster):

- **v2.1.9**: <https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v2.1.9-linux-amd64.tar.gz>
- **v2.0.9**: <https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-lightning-v2.0.9-linux-amd64.tar.gz>
- Latest unstable version: <https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-lightning-test-xx-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz>

#### Step 3: Start `tikv-importer`

1. Upload `bin/tikv-importer` from the installation package.

2. Configure `tikv-importer.toml`.

    ```toml
    # TiKV Importer configuration file template

    # Log file
    log-file = "tikv-importer.log"
    # Log level: trace, debug, info, warn, error, off.
    log-level = "info"

    [server]
    # The listening address of tikv-importer. tidb-lightning needs to connect to
    # this address to write data.
    addr = "0.0.0.0:8287"
    # Size of the thread pool for the gRPC server.
    grpc-concurrency = 16

    [metric]
    # The Prometheus client push job name.
    job = "tikv-importer"
    # The Prometheus client push interval.
    interval = "15s"
    # The Prometheus Pushgateway address.
    address = ""

    [rocksdb]
    # The maximum number of concurrent background jobs.
    max-background-jobs = 32

    [rocksdb.defaultcf]
    # Amount of data to build up in memory before flushing data to the disk.
    write-buffer-size = "1GB"
    # The maximum number of write buffers that are built up in memory.
    max-write-buffer-number = 8

    # The compression algorithms used in different levels.
    # The algorithm at level-0 is used to compress KV data.
    # The algorithm at level-6 is used to compress SST files.
    # The algorithms at level-1 to level-5 are unused for now.
    compression-per-level = ["lz4", "no", "no", "no", "no", "no", "lz4"]

    [rocksdb.writecf]
    # (same as above)
    compression-per-level = ["lz4", "no", "no", "no", "no", "no", "lz4"]

    [import]
    # The directory to store engine files.
    import-dir = "/mnt/ssd/data.import/"
    # Number of threads to handle RPC requests.
    num-threads = 16
    # Number of concurrent import jobs.
    num-import-jobs = 24
    # Maximum duration to prepare Regions.
    #max-prepare-duration = "5m"
    # Split Regions into this size according to the importing data.
    #region-split-size = "512MB"
    # Stream channel window size. The stream will be blocked on channel full.
    #stream-channel-window = 128
    # Maximum number of open engines.
    max-open-engines = 8
    # Maximum upload speed (bytes per second) from Importer to TiKV.
    # upload-speed-limit = "512MB"
    # Minimum ratio of available space on the target store: `store_available_space`/`store_capacity`.
    # Importer pauses uploading SST if the availability ratio of the target store is less than this
    # value, to allow enough time for PD to balance Regions.
    min-available-ratio = 0.05
    ```

3. Run `tikv-importer`.

    ```sh
    nohup ./tikv-importer -C tikv-importer.toml > nohup.out &
    ```

#### Step 4: Start `tidb-lightning`

1. Upload `bin/tidb-lightning` and `bin/tidb-lightning-ctl` from the tool set.

2. Mount the data source onto the same machine.

3. Configure `tidb-lightning.toml`.

    ```toml
    ### tidb-lightning configuration

    [lightning]
    # the HTTP port for debugging and Prometheus metrics pulling (0 to disable)
    pprof-port = 8289

    # Checks if the cluster satisfies the minimum requirement before starting.
    #check-requirements = true

    # The maximum number of engines to be opened concurrently.
    # Each table is split into one "index engine" to store indices, and multiple
    # "data engines" to store row data. These settings control the maximum
    # concurrent number for each type of engines.
    # These values affect the memory and disk usage of tikv-importer.
    # The sum of these two values must not exceed the max-open-engines setting
    # for tikv-importer.
    index-concurrency = 2
    table-concurrency = 6

    # The concurrency number of data. It is set to the number of logical CPU
    # cores by default. When deploying together with other components, you can
    # set it to 75% of the size of logical CPU cores to limit the CPU usage.
    #region-concurrency =

    # The maximum I/O concurrency. Excessive I/O concurrency causes an increase in
    # I/O latency because the disk's internal buffer is frequently refreshed,
    # which causes the cache miss and slows down the read speed. Depending on the storage
    # medium, this value might need to be adjusted for optimal performance.
    io-concurrency = 5

    # Logging
    level = "info"
    file = "tidb-lightning.log"
    max-size = 128 # MB
    max-days = 28
    max-backups = 14

    [checkpoint]
    # Whether to enable checkpoints.
    # While importing, Lightning records which tables have been imported, so
    # even if Lightning or other component crashed, you could start from a known
    # good state instead of redoing everything.
    enable = true
    # The schema name (database name) to store the checkpoints
    schema = "tidb_lightning_checkpoint"
    # Where to store the checkpoints.
    #  - file:  store as a local file.
    #  - mysql: store into a remote MySQL-compatible database
    driver = "file"
    # The data source name (DSN) indicating the location of the checkpoint storage.
    # For the "file" driver, the DSN is a path. If the path is not specified, Lightning would
    # default to "/tmp/CHECKPOINT_SCHEMA.pb".
    # For the "mysql" driver, the DSN is a URL in the form of "USER:PASS@tcp(HOST:PORT)/".
    # If the URL is not specified, the TiDB server from the [tidb] section is used to
    # store the checkpoints. You should specify a different MySQL-compatible
    # database server to reduce the load of the target TiDB cluster.
    #dsn = "/tmp/tidb_lightning_checkpoint.pb"
    # Whether to keep the checkpoints after all data are imported. If false, the
    # checkpoints will be deleted. Keeping the checkpoints can aid debugging but
    # will leak metadata about the data source.
    #keep-after-success = false

    [tikv-importer]
    # The listening address of tikv-importer. Change it to the actual address.
    addr = "172.16.31.10:8287"

    [mydumper]
    # Block size for file reading. Keep it longer than the longest string of
    # the data source.
    read-block-size = 65536 # Byte (default = 64 KB)

    # Minimum size (in terms of source data file) of each batch of import.
    # TiDB Lightning splits a large table into multiple data engine files according to this size.
    batch-size = 107_374_182_400 # Byte (default = 100 GB)

    # Engine file needs to be imported sequentially. Due to parallel processing,
    # multiple data engines will be imported at nearly the same time, and this
    # creates a queue and wastes resources. Therefore, Lightning slightly
    # increases the size of the first few batches to properly distribute
    # resources. The scale up factor is controlled by this parameter, which
    # expresses the ratio of duration between the "import" and "write" steps
    # with full concurrency. This can be calculated by using the ratio
    # (import duration/write duration) of a single table of size around 1 GB.
    # The exact timing can be found in the log. If "import" is faster, the batch
    # size variance is smaller, and a ratio of zero means a uniform batch size.
    # This value should be in the range (0 <= batch-import-ratio < 1).
    batch-import-ratio = 0.75

    # mydumper local source data directory
    data-source-dir = "/data/my_database"
    # If no-schema is set to true, tidb-lightning assumes that the table skeletons
    # already exist on the target TiDB cluster, and will not execute the `CREATE
    # TABLE` statements
    no-schema = false
    # the character set of the schema files, containing CREATE TABLE statements;
    # only supports one of:
    #  - utf8mb4: the schema files must be encoded as UTF-8, otherwise Lightning
    #             will emit errors
    #  - gb18030: the schema files must be encoded as GB-18030, otherwise
    #             Lightning will emit errors
    #  - auto:    (default) automatically detects whether the schema is UTF-8 or
    #             GB-18030. An error is reported if the encoding is neither.
    #  - binary:  do not try to decode the schema files
    # note that the *data* files are always parsed as binary regardless of
    # schema encoding.
    character-set = "auto"

    # Configure how CSV files are parsed.
    [mydumper.csv]
    # Separator between fields, should be an ASCII character.
    separator = ','
    # Quoting delimiter, can either be an ASCII character or empty string.
    delimiter = '"'
    # Whether the CSV files contain a header.
    # If `header` is true, the first line will be skipped.
    header = true
    # Whether the CSV contains any NULL value.
    # If `not-null` is true, all columns from CSV cannot be NULL.
    not-null = false
    # When `not-null` is false (i.e. CSV can contain NULL),
    # fields equal to this value will be treated as NULL.
    null = '\N'
    # Whether to interpret backslash escapes inside fields.
    backslash-escape = true
    # If a line ends with a separator, remove it.
    trim-last-separator = false

    [tidb]
    # Configuration of any TiDB server from the cluster
    host = "172.16.31.1"
    port = 4000
    user = "root"
    password = ""
    # Table schema information is fetched from TiDB via this status-port.
    status-port = 10080
    # Address of any PD server from the cluster
    pd-addr = "172.16.31.4:2379"
    # tidb-lightning imports TiDB as a library and generates some logs itself.
    # This setting controls the log level of the TiDB library.
    log-level = "error"

    # Sets the TiDB session variable to speed up the Checksum and Analyze operations.
    # See https://pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/performance/statistics/#control-analyze-concurrency
    # for the meaning of each setting
    build-stats-concurrency = 20
    distsql-scan-concurrency = 100
    index-serial-scan-concurrency = 20
    checksum-table-concurrency = 16

    # When data importing is complete, tidb-lightning can automatically perform
    # the Checksum, Compact and Analyze operations. It is recommended to leave
    # these as true in the production environment.
    # The execution order: Checksum -> Analyze
    [post-restore]
    # Performs `ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE <table>` for each table to verify data integrity.
    checksum = true
    # If the value is set to `true`, a level-1 compaction is performed
    # every time a table is imported.
    # The default value is `false`.
    level-1-compact = false
    # If the value is set to `true`, a full compaction on the whole
    # TiKV cluster is performed at the end of the import.
    # The default value is `false`.
    compact = false
    # Performs `ANALYZE TABLE <table>` for each table.
    analyze = true

    # Configures the background periodic actions
    # Supported units: h (hour), m (minute), s (second).
    [cron]
    # Duration between which Lightning automatically refreshes the import mode
    # status. Should be shorter than the corresponding TiKV setting.
    switch-mode = "5m"
    # Duration between which an import progress is printed to the log.
    log-progress = "5m"

    # Table filter options. See the corresponding section for details.
    #[black-white-list]
    # ...
    ```

4. Run `tidb-lightning`.

    ```sh
    nohup ./tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
    ```

Commit message:

reference/tools, tidb-in-kubernetes: Update TiDB lightning deployment document (#1482)
* tidb-in-kubernetes, TOC: rename and add aliases for local PV file

* reference/tools: update TiDB Lightning deployment document

* v3.0: resolve pr conflicts

* Update deployment.md

* fix broken links

* fix PR changes conflict

* Update local-pv.md

* Update local-pv.md

v3.0/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/deployment.md, after:

---
title: TiDB Lightning Deployment
summary: Deploy TiDB Lightning to quickly import large amounts of new data.
category: reference
---

# TiDB Lightning Deployment

This document describes the hardware requirements of TiDB Lightning on separate deployment and mixed deployment, and how to deploy it using Ansible or manually.

## Notes

Before starting TiDB Lightning, note that:

- During the import process, the cluster cannot provide normal services.
- If `tidb-lightning` crashes, the cluster is left in "import mode". Forgetting to switch back to "normal mode" can lead to a high amount of uncompacted data on the TiKV cluster, and cause abnormally high CPU usage and stall. You can manually switch the cluster back to "normal mode" via the `tidb-lightning-ctl` tool:

    ```sh
    bin/tidb-lightning-ctl -switch-mode=normal
    ```

- TiDB Lightning is required to have the following privileges in the downstream TiDB:

    | Privilege | Scope |
    |----:|:------|
    | SELECT | Tables |
    | INSERT | Tables |
    | UPDATE | Tables |
    | DELETE | Tables |
    | CREATE | Databases, tables |
    | DROP | Databases, tables |
    | ALTER | Tables |

    If the `checksum` configuration item of TiDB Lightning is set to `true`, then the admin user privileges in the downstream TiDB need to be granted to TiDB Lightning.

## Hardware requirements

`tidb-lightning` and `tikv-importer` are both resource-intensive programs. It is recommended to deploy them into two separate machines.

To achieve the best performance, it is recommended to use the following hardware configuration:

- `tidb-lightning`:

    - 32+ logical cores CPU
    - An SSD large enough to store the entire data source, preferring higher read speed
    - 10 Gigabit network card (capable of transferring at ≥300 MB/s)
    - `tidb-lightning` fully consumes all CPU cores when running,
        and deploying on a dedicated machine is highly recommended.
        If not possible, `tidb-lightning` could be deployed together with other components like
        `tidb-server`, and the CPU usage could be limited via the `region-concurrency` setting.

- `tikv-importer`:

    - 32+ logical cores CPU
    - 40 GB+ memory
    - 1 TB+ SSD, preferring higher IOPS (≥ 8000 is recommended)
        * The disk should be larger than the total size of the top N tables, where N = max(index-concurrency, table-concurrency).
    - 10 Gigabit network card (capable of transferring at ≥300 MB/s)
    - `tikv-importer` fully consumes all CPU, disk I/O and network bandwidth when running,
        and deploying on a dedicated machine is strongly recommended.

If you have sufficient machines, you can deploy multiple Lightning/Importer servers, with each working on a distinct set of tables, to import the data in parallel.

> **Note:**
>
> - `tidb-lightning` is a CPU intensive program. In an environment with mixed components, the resources allocated to `tidb-lightning` must be limited. Otherwise, other components might not be able to run. It is recommended to set the `region-concurrency` to 75% of CPU logical cores. For instance, if the CPU has 32 logical cores, you can set the `region-concurrency` to 24.
>
> - `tikv-importer` stores intermediate data on the RAM to speed up the import process. The typical memory usage can be calculated by using **(`max-open-engines` × `write-buffer-size` × 2) + (`num-import-jobs` × `region-split-size` × 2)**. If the speed of writing to disk is slow, the memory usage could be even higher due to buffering.

Additionally, the target TiKV cluster should have enough space to absorb the new data.
Besides [the standard requirements](/how-to/deploy/hardware-recommendations.md), the total free space of the target TiKV cluster should be larger than **Size of data source × [Number of replicas](/faq/tidb.md#is-the-number-of-replicas-in-each-region-configurable-if-yes-how-to-configure-it) × 2**.

With the default replica count of 3, this means the total free space should be at least 6 times the size of data source.

## Export data

Use the [`mydumper` tool](/reference/tools/mydumper.md) to export data from MySQL by using the following command:

```sh
./bin/mydumper -h 127.0.0.1 -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -F 256 -B test -T t1,t2 --skip-tz-utc -o /data/my_database/
```

In this command,

- `-B test`: means the data is exported from the `test` database.
- `-T t1,t2`: means only the `t1` and `t2` tables are exported.
- `-t 16`: means 16 threads are used to export the data.
- `-F 256`: means a table is partitioned into chunks and one chunk is 256 MB.
- `--skip-tz-utc`: the purpose of adding this parameter is to ignore the inconsistency of time zone setting between MySQL and the data exporting machine, and to disable automatic conversion.

If the data source consists of CSV files, see [CSV support](/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/csv.md) for configuration.

## Deploy TiDB Lightning

This section describes two deployment methods of TiDB Lightning:

- [Deploy TiDB Lightning using Ansible](#deploy-tidb-lightning-using-ansible)
- [Deploy TiDB Lightning manually](#deploy-tidb-lightning-manually)

### Deploy TiDB Lightning using Ansible

You can deploy TiDB Lightning using Ansible together with the [deployment of the TiDB cluster itself using Ansible](/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/ansible.md).

1. Edit `inventory.ini` to add the addresses of the `tidb-lightning` and `tikv-importer` servers.

    ```ini
    ...

    [importer_server]
    192.168.20.9

    [lightning_server]
    192.168.20.10

    ...
    ```

2. Configure these tools by editing the settings under `group_vars/*.yml`.

    * `group_vars/all.yml`

        ```yaml
        ...
        # The listening port of tikv-importer. Should be open to the tidb-lightning server.
        tikv_importer_port: 8287
        ...
        ```

    * `group_vars/lightning_server.yml`

        ```yaml
        ---
        dummy:

        # The listening port for metrics gathering. Should be open to the monitoring servers.
        tidb_lightning_pprof_port: 8289

        # The file path that tidb-lightning reads the data source (Mydumper SQL dump or CSV) from.
        data_source_dir: "{{ deploy_dir }}/mydumper"
        ```

    * `group_vars/importer_server.yml`

        ```yaml
        ---
        dummy:

        # The file path to store engine files. Should reside on a partition with a large capacity.
        import_dir: "{{ deploy_dir }}/data.import"
        ```

3. Deploy the cluster.

    ```sh
    ansible-playbook bootstrap.yml
    ansible-playbook deploy.yml
    ```

4. Mount the data source to the path specified in the `data_source_dir` setting.

5. Log in to the `tikv-importer` server, and manually run the following command to start Importer.

    ```sh
    scripts/start_importer.sh
    ```

6. Log in to the `tidb-lightning` server, and manually run the following command to start Lightning and import the data into the TiDB cluster.

    ```sh
    scripts/start_lightning.sh
    ```

7. After completion, run `scripts/stop_importer.sh` on the `tikv-importer` server to stop Importer.

### Deploy TiDB Lightning manually

#### Step 1: Deploy a TiDB cluster

Before importing data, you need to have a deployed TiDB cluster, with the cluster version 2.0.9 or above. It is highly recommended to use the latest version.

You can find deployment instructions in [TiDB Quick Start Guide](https://pingcap.com/docs/QUICKSTART/).

#### Step 2: Download the TiDB Lightning installation package

Download the TiDB Lightning package (choose the same version as that of the TiDB cluster):

- **v2.1.9**: <https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v2.1.9-linux-amd64.tar.gz>
- **v2.0.9**: <https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-lightning-v2.0.9-linux-amd64.tar.gz>
- Latest unstable version: <https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-lightning-test-xx-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz>

#### Step 3: Start `tikv-importer`

1. Upload `bin/tikv-importer` from the installation package.

2. Configure `tikv-importer.toml`.

    ```toml
    # TiKV Importer configuration file template

    # Log file
    log-file = "tikv-importer.log"
    # Log level: trace, debug, info, warn, error, off.
    log-level = "info"

    [server]
    # The listening address of tikv-importer. tidb-lightning needs to connect to
    # this address to write data.
    addr = "0.0.0.0:8287"
    # Size of the thread pool for the gRPC server.
    grpc-concurrency = 16

    [metric]
    # The Prometheus client push job name.
    job = "tikv-importer"
    # The Prometheus client push interval.
    interval = "15s"
    # The Prometheus Pushgateway address.
    address = ""

    [rocksdb]
    # The maximum number of concurrent background jobs.
    max-background-jobs = 32

    [rocksdb.defaultcf]
    # Amount of data to build up in memory before flushing data to the disk.
    write-buffer-size = "1GB"
    # The maximum number of write buffers that are built up in memory.
    max-write-buffer-number = 8

    # The compression algorithms used in different levels.
    # The algorithm at level-0 is used to compress KV data.
    # The algorithm at level-6 is used to compress SST files.
    # The algorithms at level-1 to level-5 are unused for now.
    compression-per-level = ["lz4", "no", "no", "no", "no", "no", "lz4"]

    [rocksdb.writecf]
    # (same as above)
    compression-per-level = ["lz4", "no", "no", "no", "no", "no", "lz4"]

    [import]
    # The directory to store engine files.
    import-dir = "/mnt/ssd/data.import/"
    # Number of threads to handle RPC requests.
    num-threads = 16
    # Number of concurrent import jobs.
    num-import-jobs = 24
    # Maximum duration to prepare Regions.
    # max-prepare-duration = "5m"
    # Split Regions into this size according to the importing data.
    # region-split-size = "512MB"
    # Stream channel window size. The stream will be blocked on channel full.
    # stream-channel-window = 128
    # Maximum number of open engines.
    max-open-engines = 8
    # Maximum upload speed (bytes per second) from Importer to TiKV.
    # upload-speed-limit = "512MB"
    # Minimum ratio of available space on the target store: `store_available_space`/`store_capacity`.
    # Importer pauses uploading SST if the availability ratio of the target store is less than this
    # value, to allow enough time for PD to balance Regions.
    min-available-ratio = 0.05
    ```

3. Run `tikv-importer`.

    ```sh
    nohup ./tikv-importer -C tikv-importer.toml > nohup.out &
    ```

#### Step 4: Start `tidb-lightning`

1. Upload `bin/tidb-lightning` and `bin/tidb-lightning-ctl` from the tool set.

2. Mount the data source onto the same machine.

3. Configure `tidb-lightning.toml`. For configurations that do not appear in the template below, TiDB Lightning writes a configuration error to the log file and exits.

    ```toml
    ### tidb-lightning configuration

    [lightning]
    # the HTTP port for debugging and Prometheus metrics pulling (0 to disable)
    pprof-port = 8289

    # Checks if the cluster satisfies the minimum requirement before starting.
    # check-requirements = true

    # The maximum number of engines to be opened concurrently.
    # Each table is split into one "index engine" to store indices, and multiple
    # "data engines" to store row data. These settings control the maximum
    # concurrent number for each type of engines.
    # These values affect the memory and disk usage of tikv-importer.
    # The sum of these two values must not exceed the max-open-engines setting
    # for tikv-importer.
    index-concurrency = 2
    table-concurrency = 6

    # The concurrency number of data. It is set to the number of logical CPU
    # cores by default. When deploying together with other components, you can
    # set it to 75% of the size of logical CPU cores to limit the CPU usage.
    # region-concurrency =

    # The maximum I/O concurrency. Excessive I/O concurrency causes an increase in
    # I/O latency because the disk's internal buffer is frequently refreshed,
    # which causes the cache miss and slows down the read speed. Depending on the storage
    # medium, this value might need to be adjusted for optimal performance.
    io-concurrency = 5

    # Logging
    level = "info"
    file = "tidb-lightning.log"
    max-size = 128 # MB
    max-days = 28 # Old logs are not deleted by default.
    max-backups = 14

    # Server mode
    # Whether to enable server mode.
    # server-mode = false
    # Listening address in server mode.
    # status-addr = ":8289"

    [checkpoint]
    # Whether to enable checkpoints.
    # While importing, Lightning records which tables have been imported, so
    # even if Lightning or other component crashed, you could start from a known
    # good state instead of redoing everything.
    enable = true
    # The schema name (database name) to store the checkpoints
    schema = "tidb_lightning_checkpoint"
    # Where to store the checkpoints.
    #  - file:  store as a local file.
    #  - mysql: store into a remote MySQL-compatible database
    driver = "file"
    # The data source name (DSN) indicating the location of the checkpoint storage.
    # For the "file" driver, the DSN is a path. If the path is not specified, Lightning would
    # default to "/tmp/CHECKPOINT_SCHEMA.pb".
    # For the "mysql" driver, the DSN is a URL in the form of "USER:PASS@tcp(HOST:PORT)/".
    # If the URL is not specified, the TiDB server from the [tidb] section is used to
    # store the checkpoints. You should specify a different MySQL-compatible
    # database server to reduce the load of the target TiDB cluster.
    # dsn = "/tmp/tidb_lightning_checkpoint.pb"
    # Whether to keep the checkpoints after all data are imported. If false, the
    # checkpoints will be deleted. Keeping the checkpoints can aid debugging but
    # will leak metadata about the data source.
    # keep-after-success = false

    [tikv-importer]
    # The listening address of tikv-importer. Change it to the actual address.
    addr = "172.16.31.10:8287"

    [mydumper]
    # Block size for file reading. Keep it longer than the longest string of
    # the data source.
    read-block-size = 65536 # Byte (default = 64 KB)

    # Minimum size (in terms of source data file) of each batch of import.
    # TiDB Lightning splits a large table into multiple data engine files according to this size.
    batch-size = 107_374_182_400 # Byte (default = 100 GB)

    # Engine file needs to be imported sequentially. Due to parallel processing,
    # multiple data engines will be imported at nearly the same time, and this
    # creates a queue and wastes resources. Therefore, Lightning slightly
    # increases the size of the first few batches to properly distribute
    # resources. The scale up factor is controlled by this parameter, which
    # expresses the ratio of duration between the "import" and "write" steps
    # with full concurrency. This can be calculated by using the ratio
    # (import duration/write duration) of a single table of size around 1 GB.
    # The exact timing can be found in the log. If "import" is faster, the batch
    # size variance is smaller, and a ratio of zero means a uniform batch size.
    # This value should be in the range (0 <= batch-import-ratio < 1).
    batch-import-ratio = 0.75

    # mydumper local source data directory
    data-source-dir = "/data/my_database"
    # If no-schema is set to true, tidb-lightning assumes that the table skeletons
    # already exist on the target TiDB cluster, and will not execute the `CREATE
    # TABLE` statements
    no-schema = false
    # the character set of the schema files, containing CREATE TABLE statements;
    # only supports one of:
    #  - utf8mb4: the schema files must be encoded as UTF-8, otherwise Lightning
    #             will emit errors
    #  - gb18030: the schema files must be encoded as GB-18030, otherwise
    #             Lightning will emit errors
    #  - auto:    (default) automatically detects whether the schema is UTF-8 or
    #             GB-18030. An error is reported if the encoding is neither.
    #  - binary:  do not try to decode the schema files
    # note that the *data* files are always parsed as binary regardless of
    # schema encoding.
    character-set = "auto"
    # Is it case sensitive.
    # case-sensitive = false

    # Configure how CSV files are parsed.
    [mydumper.csv]
    # Separator between fields, should be an ASCII character.
    separator = ','
    # Quoting delimiter, can either be an ASCII character or empty string.
    delimiter = '"'
    # Whether the CSV files contain a header.
    # If `header` is true, the first line will be skipped.
    header = true
    # Whether the CSV contains any NULL value.
    # If `not-null` is true, all columns from CSV cannot be NULL.
    not-null = false
    # When `not-null` is false (i.e. CSV can contain NULL),
    # fields equal to this value will be treated as NULL.
    null = '\N'
    # Whether to interpret backslash escapes inside fields.
    backslash-escape = true
    # If a line ends with a separator, remove it.
    trim-last-separator = false

    [tidb]
    # Configuration of any TiDB server from the cluster
    host = "172.16.31.1"
    port = 4000
    user = "root"
    password = ""
    # Table schema information is fetched from TiDB via this status-port.
    status-port = 10080
    # Address of any PD server from the cluster
    pd-addr = "172.16.31.4:2379"
    # tidb-lightning imports TiDB as a library and generates some logs itself.
    # This setting controls the log level of the TiDB library.
    log-level = "error"
    # MySQL SQL Mode configuration
    # sql-mode = ""

    # Sets the TiDB session variable to speed up the Checksum and Analyze operations.
    # See https://pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/performance/statistics/#control-analyze-concurrency
    # for the meaning of each setting
    build-stats-concurrency = 20
    distsql-scan-concurrency = 100
    index-serial-scan-concurrency = 20
    checksum-table-concurrency = 16

    # When data importing is complete, tidb-lightning can automatically perform
    # the Checksum, Compact and Analyze operations. It is recommended to leave
    # these as true in the production environment.
    # The execution order: Checksum -> Analyze
    [post-restore]
    # Performs `ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE <table>` for each table to verify data integrity.
    checksum = true
    # If the value is set to `true`, a level-1 compaction is performed
    # every time a table is imported.
    # The default value is `false`.
    level-1-compact = false
    # If the value is set to `true`, a full compaction on the whole
    # TiKV cluster is performed at the end of the import.
    # The default value is `false`.
    compact = false
    # Performs `ANALYZE TABLE <table>` for each table.
    analyze = true

    # Configures the background periodic actions
    # Supported units: h (hour), m (minute), s (second).
    [cron]
    # Duration between which Lightning automatically refreshes the import mode
    # status. Should be shorter than the corresponding TiKV setting.
    switch-mode = "5m"
    # Duration between which an import progress is printed to the log.
    log-progress = "5m"

    # Table filter options. See the corresponding section for details.
    # [black-white-list]
    # ...
    ```

4. Run `tidb-lightning`.

    ```sh
    nohup ./tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
    ```
