.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

<!--Thanks for your contribution to TiDB documentation. Please answer the following questions.-->

### First-time contributors' checklist <!--Remove this section if you're not a first-time contributor.-->

- [ ] I've signed [**Contributor License Agreement**](https://cla-assistant.io/pingcap/docs-cn) that's required for repo owners to accept my contribution.

### What is changed, added or deleted? (Required)

<!--Tell us what you did and why.-->

### Which TiDB version(s) do your changes apply to? (Required)

<!-- Fill in "x" in [] to tick the checkbox below.-->

- [ ] master (the latest development version)
- [ ] v5.1 (TiDB 5.1 versions)
- [ ] v5.0 (TiDB 5.0 versions)
- [ ] v4.0 (TiDB 4.0 versions)
- [ ] v3.1 (TiDB 3.1 versions)
- [ ] v3.0 (TiDB 3.0 versions)
- [ ] v2.1 (TiDB 2.1 versions)

### What is the related PR or file link(s)?

<!--Reference link(s) will help reviewers review your PR quickly.-->

- This PR is translated from:
- Other reference link(s):

### Do your changes match any of the following descriptions?

- [ ] Delete files
- [ ] Change aliases
- [ ] Need modification after applied to another branch <!-- If yes, please comment "/label version-specific-changes-required" below to trigger the bot to add the label.-->
- [ ] Might cause conflicts after applied to another branch

Commit message:

pr_template: Provides tips for cherry-pick (#6702)

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

<!--Thanks for your contribution to TiDB documentation. Please answer the following questions.-->

### First-time contributors' checklist <!--Remove this section if you're not a first-time contributor.-->

- [ ] I've signed [**Contributor License Agreement**](https://cla-assistant.io/pingcap/docs-cn) that's required for repo owners to accept my contribution.

### What is changed, added or deleted? (Required)

<!--Tell us what you did and why.-->

### Which TiDB version(s) do your changes apply to? (Required)

<!-- Fill in "x" in [] to tick the checkbox below.-->

**Tips for choosing the affected version(s):**

By default, **CHOOSE MASTER ONLY** so your changes will be applied to the next TiDB major or minor releases. If your PR involves a product feature behavior change or a compatibility change, **CHOOSE THE AFFECTED RELEASE BRANCH(ES) AND MASTER**.  

For details, see [tips for choosing the affected versions (in Chinese)](/CONTRIBUTING.md#版本选择指南).

- [ ] master (the latest development version)
- [ ] v5.1 (TiDB 5.1 versions)
- [ ] v5.0 (TiDB 5.0 versions)
- [ ] v4.0 (TiDB 4.0 versions)
- [ ] v3.1 (TiDB 3.1 versions)
- [ ] v3.0 (TiDB 3.0 versions)
- [ ] v2.1 (TiDB 2.1 versions)

### What is the related PR or file link(s)?

<!--Reference link(s) will help reviewers review your PR quickly.-->

- This PR is translated from:
- Other reference link(s):

### Do your changes match any of the following descriptions?

- [ ] Delete files
- [ ] Change aliases
- [ ] Need modification after applied to another branch <!-- If yes, please comment "/label version-specific-changes-required" below to trigger the bot to add the label.-->
- [ ] Might cause conflicts after applied to another branch
