v3.0/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/control-flow-functions.md, before:

---
title: Control Flow Functions
summary: Learn about the Control Flow functions.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/sql/control-flow-functions/']
---

# Control Flow Functions

| Name                                                                                            | Description                       |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------|
| [`CASE`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#operator_case)       | Case operator                     |
| [`IF()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#function_if)         | If/else construct                 |
| [`IFNULL()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#function_ifnull) | Null if/else construct            |
| [`NULLIF()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#function_nullif) | Return NULL if expr1 = expr2      |

Commit message:

reference/sql/functions-and-operators: update list (#1262)
* reference/sql/functions-and-operators: update list

Make it clearer what is supported versus not supported.
Based on https://github.com/pingcap/docs/issues/672

v3.0/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/control-flow-functions.md, after:

---
title: Control Flow Functions
summary: Learn about the Control Flow functions.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/sql/control-flow-functions/']
---

# Control Flow Functions

TiDB supports all of the [control flow functions](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html) available in MySQL 5.7.

| Name                                                                                            | Description                       |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------|
| [`CASE`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#operator_case)       | Case operator                     |
| [`IF()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#function_if)         | If/else construct                 |
| [`IFNULL()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#function_ifnull) | Null if/else construct            |
| [`NULLIF()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/control-flow-functions.html#function_nullif) | Return NULL if expr1 = expr2      |
