v3.0/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/information-functions.md, before:

---
title: Information Functions
summary: Learn about the information functions.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/sql/information-functions/']
---

# Information Functions

In TiDB, the usage of information functions is similar to MySQL. For more information, see [Information Functions](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html).

## Information function descriptions

| Name | Description |
|:-----|:------------|
| [`CONNECTION_ID()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_connection-id) | Return the connection ID (thread ID) for the connection  |
| [`CURRENT_USER()`, `CURRENT_USER`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_current-user) | Return the authenticated user name and host name |
| [`DATABASE()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_database) | Return the default (current) database name  |
| [`FOUND_ROWS()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_found-rows) | For a `SELECT` with a `LIMIT` clause, the number of the rows that are returned if there is no `LIMIT` clause |
| [`LAST_INSERT_ID()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_last-insert-id) | Return the value of the `AUTOINCREMENT` column for the last `INSERT`   |
| [`SCHEMA()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_schema) | Synonym for `DATABASE()`  |
| [`SESSION_USER()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_session-user) | Synonym for `USER()`    |
| [`SYSTEM_USER()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_system-user) | Synonym for `USER()`   |
| [`USER()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_user) | Return the user name and host name provided by the client    |
| [`VERSION()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_version) | Return a string that indicates the MySQL server version   |
| `TIDB_VERSION()` | Return a string that indicates the TiDB server version |

Commit message:

reference/sql/functions-and-operators: update list (#1262)
* reference/sql/functions-and-operators: update list

Make it clearer what is supported versus not supported.
Based on https://github.com/pingcap/docs/issues/672

v3.0/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/information-functions.md, after:

---
title: Information Functions
summary: Learn about the information functions.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/sql/information-functions/']
---

# Information Functions

TiDB supports most of the [information functions](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html) available in MySQL 5.7.

## Supported functions

| Name | Description |
|:-----|:------------|
| [`BENCHMARK()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_benchmark) | Execute an expression in a loop |
| [`CONNECTION_ID()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_connection-id) | Return the connection ID (thread ID) for the connection  |
| [`CURRENT_USER()`, `CURRENT_USER`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_current-user) | Return the authenticated user name and host name |
| [`DATABASE()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_database) | Return the default (current) database name  |
| [`FOUND_ROWS()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_found-rows) | For a `SELECT` with a `LIMIT` clause, the number of the rows that are returned if there is no `LIMIT` clause |
| [`LAST_INSERT_ID()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_last-insert-id) | Return the value of the `AUTOINCREMENT` column for the last `INSERT`   |
| [`ROW_COUNT()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_row-count) | The number of rows affected |
| [`SCHEMA()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_schema) | Synonym for `DATABASE()`  |
| [`SESSION_USER()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_session-user) | Synonym for `USER()`    |
| [`SYSTEM_USER()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_system-user) | Synonym for `USER()`   |
| [`USER()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_user) | Return the user name and host name provided by the client    |
| [`VERSION()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/information-functions.html#function_version) | Return a string that indicates the MySQL server version   |
| `TIDB_VERSION()` | Return a string that indicates the TiDB server version |

## Unsupported functions

* `CHARSET()`
* `COERCIBILITY()`
* `COLLATION()`
