migrate-from-aurora-using-lightning.md, before:

---
title: Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL Using TiDB Lightning
summary: Learn how to migrate full data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB using TiDB Lightning.
---

# Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL Using TiDB Lightning

This document introduces how to migrate full data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB using TiDB Lightning.

## Step 1: Export full data from Aurora to Amazon S3

Refer to [AWS Documentation - Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html) to export the snapshot data of Aurora to Amazon S3.

## Step 2: Deploy TiDB Lightning

For detailed deployment methods, see [Deploy TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/deploy-tidb-lightning.md).

## Step 3: Configure the data source of TiDB Lightning

Based on different deployment methods, edit the `tidb-lighting.toml` configuration file as follows:

1. Configure `data-source-dir` under `[mydumper]` as the S3 Bucket path of exported data in [step 1](#step-1-export-full-data-from-aurora-to-amazon-s3).

    ```
    [mydumper]
    # Data source directory
    data-source-dir = "s3://bucket-name/data-path"
    ```

2. Configure the target TiDB cluster as follows:

    ```
    [tidb]
    # The target cluster information. Fill in one address of tidb-server.
    host = "172.16.31.1"
    port = 4000
    user = "root"
    password = ""
    # The PD address of the cluster.
    pd-addr = "127.0.0.1:2379"
    ```

3. Configure the backend mode:

    ```
    [tikv-importer]
    # Uses Local-backend.
    backend = "local"
    # The storage path of local temporary files. Ensure that the corresponding directory does not exist or is empty and that the disk capacity is large enough for storage.
    sorted-kv-dir = "/path/to/local-temp-dir"
    ```

4. Configure the file routing.

    ```
    [mydumper]
    no-schema = true

    [[mydumper.files]]
    # Uses single quoted strings to avoid escaping.
    pattern = '(?i)^(?:[^/]*/)*([a-z0-9_]+)\.([a-z0-9_]+)/(?:[^/]*/)*(?:[a-z0-9\-_.]+\.(parquet))$'
    schema = '$1'
    table = '$2'
    type = '$3'
    ```

> **Note:**
>
> - The above example uses the Local-backend for best performance. You can also choose TiDB-backend or Importer-backend according to your need. For detailed introduction of the three backend modes, see [TiDB Lightning Backends](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-backends.md).
> - Because the path for exporting snapshot data from Aurora is different from the default file naming format supported by TiDB Lightning, you need to set additional file routing configuration.
> - If TLS is enabled in the target TiDB cluster, you also need to configure TLS.

For other configurations, see [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

## Step 4: Create table schema

Because the snapshot data exported from Aurora to S3 does not contain the SQL statement file used to create database tables, you need to manually export and import the table creation statements corresponding to the database tables into TiDB. You can use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to create all table schemas:

1. Use Dumpling to export table schema files:

    ```
    ./dumpling --host 127.0.0.1 --port 4000 --user root --password password --no-data --output ./schema --filter "mydb.*"
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - Set the parameters of the data source address and the path of output files according to your actual situation.
    > - If you need to export all database tables, you do not need to set the `--filter` parameter. If you only need to export some of the database tables, configure `--filter` according to [table-filter](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools/blob/master/pkg/table-filter/README.md).

2. Use TiDB Lightning to create table schemas:

    ```
    ./tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -d ./schema -no-schema=false
    ```

    In this example, TiDB Lightning is only used to create table schemas, so you need to execute the above command quickly. At a regular speed, ten table creation statements can be executed in one second.

> **Note:**
>
> If the number of database tables to create is relatively small, you can manually create the corresponding databases and tables in TiDB directly, or use other tools such as mysqldump to export the schema and then import it into TiDB.

## Step 5: Run TiDB Lightning to import data

Run TiDB Lightning to start the import operation. If you start TiDB Lightning by using `nohup` directly in the command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. Therefore, it is recommended to write `nohup` in a script. For example:

```bash
# !/bin/bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${AccessKey}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${SecretKey}
nohup ./tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
```

When the import operation is started, view the progress by the following two ways:

- `grep` the keyword `progress` in logs, which is updated every 5 minutes by default.
- Access the monitoring dashboard. See [Monitor TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md) for details.

Commit message:

Migrate from Aurora: update Aurora MySQL dumpling command (#6335)

migrate-from-aurora-using-lightning.md, after:

---
title: Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL Using TiDB Lightning
summary: Learn how to migrate full data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB using TiDB Lightning.
---

# Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL Using TiDB Lightning

This document introduces how to migrate full data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB using TiDB Lightning.

## Step 1: Export full data from Aurora to Amazon S3

Refer to [AWS Documentation - Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html) to export the snapshot data of Aurora to Amazon S3.

## Step 2: Deploy TiDB Lightning

For detailed deployment methods, see [Deploy TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/deploy-tidb-lightning.md).

## Step 3: Configure the data source of TiDB Lightning

Based on different deployment methods, edit the `tidb-lighting.toml` configuration file as follows:

1. Configure `data-source-dir` under `[mydumper]` as the S3 Bucket path of exported data in [step 1](#step-1-export-full-data-from-aurora-to-amazon-s3).

    ```
    [mydumper]
    # Data source directory
    data-source-dir = "s3://bucket-name/data-path"
    ```

2. Configure the target TiDB cluster as follows:

    ```
    [tidb]
    # The target cluster information. Fill in one address of tidb-server.
    host = "172.16.31.1"
    port = 4000
    user = "root"
    password = ""
    # The PD address of the cluster.
    pd-addr = "127.0.0.1:2379"
    ```

3. Configure the backend mode:

    ```
    [tikv-importer]
    # Uses Local-backend.
    backend = "local"
    # The storage path of local temporary files. Ensure that the corresponding directory does not exist or is empty and that the disk capacity is large enough for storage.
    sorted-kv-dir = "/path/to/local-temp-dir"
    ```

4. Configure the file routing.

    ```
    [mydumper]
    no-schema = true

    [[mydumper.files]]
    # Uses single quoted strings to avoid escaping.
    pattern = '(?i)^(?:[^/]*/)*([a-z0-9_]+)\.([a-z0-9_]+)/(?:[^/]*/)*(?:[a-z0-9\-_.]+\.(parquet))$'
    schema = '$1'
    table = '$2'
    type = '$3'
    ```

> **Note:**
>
> - The above example uses the Local-backend for best performance. You can also choose TiDB-backend or Importer-backend according to your need. For detailed introduction of the three backend modes, see [TiDB Lightning Backends](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-backends.md).
> - Because the path for exporting snapshot data from Aurora is different from the default file naming format supported by TiDB Lightning, you need to set additional file routing configuration.
> - If TLS is enabled in the target TiDB cluster, you also need to configure TLS.

For other configurations, see [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

## Step 4: Create table schema

Because the snapshot data exported from Aurora to S3 does not contain the SQL statement file used to create database tables, you need to manually export and import the table creation statements corresponding to the database tables into TiDB. You can use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to create all table schemas:

1. Use Dumpling to export table schema files:

    ```
    ./dumpling --host database-1.cedtft9htlae.us-west-2.rds.amazonaws.com --port 3306 --user root --password password --consistency none --no-data --output ./schema --filter "mydb.*"
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - Set the parameters of the data source address and the path of output files according to your actual situation. For example, `database-1.cedtft9htlae.us-west-2.rds.amazonaws.com` is the address of Aurora MySQL.
    > - If you need to export all database tables, you do not need to set the `--filter` parameter. If you only need to export some of the database tables, configure `--filter` according to [table-filter](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools/blob/master/pkg/table-filter/README.md).

2. Use TiDB Lightning to create table schemas:

    ```
    ./tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -d ./schema -no-schema=false
    ```

    In this example, TiDB Lightning is only used to create table schemas, so you need to execute the above command quickly. At a regular speed, ten table creation statements can be executed in one second.

> **Note:**
>
> If the number of database tables to create is relatively small, you can manually create the corresponding databases and tables in TiDB directly, or use other tools such as mysqldump to export the schema and then import it into TiDB.

## Step 5: Run TiDB Lightning to import data

Run TiDB Lightning to start the import operation. If you start TiDB Lightning by using `nohup` directly in the command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. Therefore, it is recommended to write `nohup` in a script. For example:

```bash
# !/bin/bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${AccessKey}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${SecretKey}
nohup ./tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
```

When the import operation is started, view the progress by the following two ways:

- `grep` the keyword `progress` in logs, which is updated every 5 minutes by default.
- Access the monitoring dashboard. See [Monitor TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md) for details.
