post-installation-check.md, before:

---
title: Check Cluster Status
summary: Learn how to check the running status of the TiDB cluster.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/post-installation-check/']
---

# Check Cluster Status

After a TiDB cluster is deployed, you need to check whether the cluster runs normally. This document introduces how to check the cluster status using TiUP commands, [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-intro.md) and Grafana, and how to log into the TiDB database to perform simple SQL operations.

## Check the TiDB cluster status

This section describes how to check the TiDB cluster status using TiUP commands, [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-intro.md), and Grafana.

### Use TiUP

Use the `tiup cluster display <cluster-name>` command to check the cluster status. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup cluster display tidb-test
```

Expected output: If the `Status` information of each node is `Up`, the cluster runs normally.

### Use TiDB Dashboard

1. Log in to TiDB Dashboard at `${pd-ip}:${pd-port}/dashboard`. The username and password is the same as that of the TiDB `root` user. If you have modified the `root` password, enter the modified password. The password is empty by default.

    ![TiDB-Dashboard](/media/tiup/tidb-dashboard.png)

2. The home page displays the node information in the TiDB cluster.

    ![TiDB-Dashboard-status](/media/tiup/tidb-dashboard-status.png)

### Use Grafana

1. Log in to the Grafana monitoring at `${Grafana-ip}:3000`. The default username and password are both `admin`.

2. To check the TiDB port status and load monitoring information, click **Overview**.

    ![Grafana-overview](/media/tiup/grafana-overview.png)

## Log in to the database and perform simple operations

> **Note:**
>
> Install the MySQL client before you log in to the database.

Log in to the database by running the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
mysql -u root -h 10.0.1.4 -P 4000
```

The following information indicates successful login:

```sql
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 3
Server version: 5.7.25-TiDB-v5.0.0 TiDB Server (Apache License 2.0) Community Edition, MySQL 5.7 compatible
Copyright (c) 2000, 2015, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.
```

### Database operations

- Check the version of TiDB:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select tidb_version()\G
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    *************************** 1. row ***************************
    tidb_version(): Release Version: v5.0.0
    Edition: Community
    Git Commit Hash: 689a6b6439ae7835947fcaccf329a3fc303986cb
    Git Branch: HEAD
    UTC Build Time: 2020-05-28 11:09:45
    GoVersion: go1.13.4
    Race Enabled: false
    TiKV Min Version: v3.0.0-60965b006877ca7234adaced7890d7b029ed1306
    Check Table Before Drop: false
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

- Create a database named `pingcap`:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    create database pingcap;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)
    ```

    Switch to the `pingcap` database:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    use pingcap;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Database changed
    ```

- Create a table named `tab_tidb`:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE `tab_tidb` (
    `id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `name` varchar(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
    `age` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    `version` varchar(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
    PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
    KEY `idx_age` (`age`));
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.11 sec)
    ```

- Insert data:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    insert into `tab_tidb` values (1,'TiDB',5,'TiDB-v5.0.0');
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Query OK, 1 row affected (0.03 sec)
    ```

- View the entries in `tab_tidb`:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select * from tab_tidb;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    +----+------+-----+-------------+
    | id | name | age | version     |
    +----+------+-----+-------------+
    |  1 | TiDB |   5 | TiDB-v5.0.0 |
    +----+------+-----+-------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

- View the store state, `store_id`, capacity, and uptime of TiKV:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select STORE_ID,ADDRESS,STORE_STATE,STORE_STATE_NAME,CAPACITY,AVAILABLE,UPTIME from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_STORE_STATUS;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    +----------+--------------------+-------------+------------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
    | STORE_ID | ADDRESS            | STORE_STATE | STORE_STATE_NAME | CAPACITY | AVAILABLE | UPTIME             |
    +----------+--------------------+-------------+------------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
    |        1 | 10.0.1.1:20160 |           0 | Up               | 49.98GiB | 46.3GiB   | 5h21m52.474864026s |
    |        4 | 10.0.1.2:20160 |           0 | Up               | 49.98GiB | 46.32GiB  | 5h21m52.522669177s |
    |        5 | 10.0.1.3:20160 |           0 | Up               | 49.98GiB | 45.44GiB  | 5h21m52.713660541s |
    +----------+--------------------+-------------+------------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
    3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

- Exit TiDB:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    exit
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Bye
    ```

Commit message:

Enhance TiDB login descriptions - EN (#6427)

post-installation-check.md, after:

---
title: Check Cluster Status
summary: Learn how to check the running status of the TiDB cluster.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/post-installation-check/']
---

# Check Cluster Status

After a TiDB cluster is deployed, you need to check whether the cluster runs normally. This document introduces how to check the cluster status using TiUP commands, [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-intro.md) and Grafana, and how to log into the TiDB database to perform simple SQL operations.

## Check the TiDB cluster status

This section describes how to check the TiDB cluster status using TiUP commands, [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-intro.md), and Grafana.

### Use TiUP

Use the `tiup cluster display <cluster-name>` command to check the cluster status. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup cluster display tidb-test
```

Expected output: If the `Status` information of each node is `Up`, the cluster runs normally.

### Use TiDB Dashboard

1. Log in to TiDB Dashboard at `${pd-ip}:${pd-port}/dashboard`. The username and password is the same as that of the TiDB `root` user. If you have modified the `root` password, enter the modified password. The password is empty by default.

    ![TiDB-Dashboard](/media/tiup/tidb-dashboard.png)

2. The home page displays the node information in the TiDB cluster.

    ![TiDB-Dashboard-status](/media/tiup/tidb-dashboard-status.png)

### Use Grafana

1. Log in to the Grafana monitoring at `${Grafana-ip}:3000`. The default username and password are both `admin`.

2. To check the TiDB port status and load monitoring information, click **Overview**.

    ![Grafana-overview](/media/tiup/grafana-overview.png)

## Log in to the database and perform simple operations

> **Note:**
>
> Install the MySQL client before you log in to the database.

Log in to the database by running the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
mysql -u root -h ${tidb_server_host_IP_address} -P 4000
```

`${tidb_server_host_IP_address}` is one of the IP addresses set for `tidb_servers` when you [initialize the cluster topology file](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md#step-3-initialize-cluster-topology-file), such as `10.0.1.7`.

The following information indicates successful login:

```sql
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 3
Server version: 5.7.25-TiDB-v5.0.0 TiDB Server (Apache License 2.0) Community Edition, MySQL 5.7 compatible
Copyright (c) 2000, 2015, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.
```

### Database operations

- Check the version of TiDB:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select tidb_version()\G
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    *************************** 1. row ***************************
    tidb_version(): Release Version: v5.0.0
    Edition: Community
    Git Commit Hash: 689a6b6439ae7835947fcaccf329a3fc303986cb
    Git Branch: HEAD
    UTC Build Time: 2020-05-28 11:09:45
    GoVersion: go1.13.4
    Race Enabled: false
    TiKV Min Version: v3.0.0-60965b006877ca7234adaced7890d7b029ed1306
    Check Table Before Drop: false
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

- Create a database named `pingcap`:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    create database pingcap;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)
    ```

    Switch to the `pingcap` database:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    use pingcap;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Database changed
    ```

- Create a table named `tab_tidb`:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE `tab_tidb` (
    `id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `name` varchar(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
    `age` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    `version` varchar(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
    PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
    KEY `idx_age` (`age`));
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.11 sec)
    ```

- Insert data:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    insert into `tab_tidb` values (1,'TiDB',5,'TiDB-v5.0.0');
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Query OK, 1 row affected (0.03 sec)
    ```

- View the entries in `tab_tidb`:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select * from tab_tidb;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    +----+------+-----+-------------+
    | id | name | age | version     |
    +----+------+-----+-------------+
    |  1 | TiDB |   5 | TiDB-v5.0.0 |
    +----+------+-----+-------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

- View the store state, `store_id`, capacity, and uptime of TiKV:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select STORE_ID,ADDRESS,STORE_STATE,STORE_STATE_NAME,CAPACITY,AVAILABLE,UPTIME from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_STORE_STATUS;
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    +----------+--------------------+-------------+------------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
    | STORE_ID | ADDRESS            | STORE_STATE | STORE_STATE_NAME | CAPACITY | AVAILABLE | UPTIME             |
    +----------+--------------------+-------------+------------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
    |        1 | 10.0.1.1:20160 |           0 | Up               | 49.98GiB | 46.3GiB   | 5h21m52.474864026s |
    |        4 | 10.0.1.2:20160 |           0 | Up               | 49.98GiB | 46.32GiB  | 5h21m52.522669177s |
    |        5 | 10.0.1.3:20160 |           0 | Up               | 49.98GiB | 45.44GiB  | 5h21m52.713660541s |
    +----------+--------------------+-------------+------------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
    3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

- Exit TiDB:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    exit
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```sql
    Bye
    ```
