v3.0/tidb-in-kubernetes/scale-in-kubernetes.md, before:

---
title: Scale TiDB in Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to horizontally and vertically scale up and down a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/v3.0/how-to/scale/tidb-in-kubernetes/']
---

# Scale TiDB in Kubernetes

This document introduces how to horizontally and vertically scale up and down a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.

## Horizontal scaling

Horizontally scaling TiDB means that you scale TiDB up or down by adding or remove nodes in your pool of resources. When you scale a TiDB cluster, PD, TiKV, and TiDB are scaled up or down sequentially according to the values of their replicas. Scaling up operations add nodes based on the node ID in ascending order, while scaling down operations remove nodes based on the node ID in descending order.

### Horizontal scaling operations

To perform a horizontal scaling operation:

1. Modify `pd.replicas`, `tidb.replicas`, `tikv.replicas` in the `value.yaml` file of the cluster to a desired value.

2. Run the `helm upgrade` command to scale up or down:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    helm upgrade <release-name> pingcap/tidb-cluster -f values.yaml --version=<chart_version>
    ```

3. View the cluster's scaling status:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    watch kubectl -n <namespace> get pod -o wide
    ```

    When the number of Pods for all components reaches the preset value and all components are in the `Running` state, the horizontal scaling is completed.

> **Note:**
>
> - The PD and TiKV components do not trigger scaling up and down operations during the rolling update.
> - When the PD and TiKV components scale downcall the corresponding interface to take offline the PD and TiKV nodes being deleted. This involves data migration operations, so it might take some time to finish the process.
When the TiKV component scales in, it calls the PD interface to mark the corresponding TiKV instance as offline, and then migrates the data on it to other TiKV nodes. During the data migration, the TiKV Pod is still in the `Running` state, and the corresponding Pod is deleted only after the data migration is completed. The time consumed by scaling in depends on the amount of data on the TiKV instance to be scaled in. You can check whether TiKV is in the `Offline` state by running `kubectl get tidbcluster -n <namespace> <release-name> -o json | jq '.status.tikv.stores'`.
> - The PVC of the deleted node is retained during the scaling down process, and because the PV's `Reclaim Policy` is set to `Retain`, the data can be retrieved even if the PVC is deleted.

## Vertical scaling

Vertically scaling TiDB means that you scale TiDB up or down by increasing or decreasing the limit of resources on the node. Vertically scaling is essentially the rolling update of the nodes.

### Vertical scaling operations

To perform a vertical scaling operation:

1. Modify `tidb.resources`, `tikv.resources`, `pd.resources` in the `values.yaml` file to a desired value.

2. Run the `helm upgrade` command to upgrade:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    helm upgrade <release-name> pingcap/tidb-cluster -f values.yaml --version=<chart_version>
    ```

3. View the progress of the upgrade:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    watch kubectl -n <namespace> get pod -o wide
    ```

    When all Pods are rebuilt and in the `Running` state, the vertical scaling is completed.

> **Note:**
>
> - If the resource's `requests` field is modified during the vertical scaling process, because PD and TiKV use `Local PV`, they need to be scheduled back to the original node after the upgrade. At this time, if the original node does not have enough resources, the Pod ends up staying in the `Pending` status and thus impacts the service.
> - TiDB is a horizontally scalable database, so it is recommended to take advantage of it simply by adding more nodes rather than upgrading hardware resources like you do with a traditional database.

Commit message:

tidb-in-kubernetes: update info for scale in k8s (#1468)

v3.0/tidb-in-kubernetes/scale-in-kubernetes.md, after:

---
title: Scale TiDB in Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to horizontally and vertically scale up and down a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/v3.0/how-to/scale/tidb-in-kubernetes/']
---

# Scale TiDB in Kubernetes

This document introduces how to horizontally and vertically scale up and down a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.

## Horizontal scaling

Horizontally scaling TiDB means that you scale TiDB up or down by adding or remove nodes in your pool of resources. When you scale a TiDB cluster, PD, TiKV, and TiDB are scaled up or down sequentially according to the values of their replicas. Scaling up operations add nodes based on the node ID in ascending order, while scaling down operations remove nodes based on the node ID in descending order.

### Horizontal scaling operations

To perform a horizontal scaling operation:

1. Modify `pd.replicas`, `tidb.replicas`, `tikv.replicas` in the `value.yaml` file of the cluster to a desired value.

2. Run the `helm upgrade` command to scale up or down:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    helm upgrade <release-name> pingcap/tidb-cluster -f values.yaml --version=<chart_version>
    ```

3. View the cluster's scaling status:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    watch kubectl -n <namespace> get pod -o wide
    ```

    When the number of Pods for all components reaches the preset value and all components are in the `Running` state, the horizontal scaling is completed.

> **Note:**
>
> - The PD and TiKV components do not trigger scaling up and down operations during the rolling update.
> - When the PD and TiKV components scale downcall the corresponding interface to take offline the PD and TiKV nodes being deleted. This involves data migration operations, so it might take some time to finish the process.
When the TiKV component scales in, it calls the PD interface to mark the corresponding TiKV instance as offline, and then migrates the data on it to other TiKV nodes. During the data migration, the TiKV Pod is still in the `Running` state, and the corresponding Pod is deleted only after the data migration is completed. The time consumed by scaling in depends on the amount of data on the TiKV instance to be scaled in. You can check whether TiKV is in the `Offline` state by running `kubectl get tidbcluster -n <namespace> <release-name> -o json | jq '.status.tikv.stores'`.
> - The PVC of the deleted node is retained during the scaling down process, and because the PV's `Reclaim Policy` value is set to `Retain`, the data can be retrieved even if the PVC is deleted.
> - The TiKV component does not support scale-out while a scale-in operation is in progress. Forcing a scale-out operation might cause anomalies in the cluster. If an anomaly already happens, refer to [TiKV Store is in Tombstone status abnormally](tidb-in-kubernetes/troubleshoot.md#tikv-store-is-in-tombstone-status-abnormally) to fix it.

## Vertical scaling

Vertically scaling TiDB means that you scale TiDB up or down by increasing or decreasing the limit of resources on the node. Vertically scaling is essentially the rolling update of the nodes.

### Vertical scaling operations

To perform a vertical scaling operation:

1. Modify `tidb.resources`, `tikv.resources`, `pd.resources` in the `values.yaml` file to a desired value.

2. Run the `helm upgrade` command to upgrade:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    helm upgrade <release-name> pingcap/tidb-cluster -f values.yaml --version=<chart_version>
    ```

3. View the progress of the upgrade:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    watch kubectl -n <namespace> get pod -o wide
    ```

    When all Pods are rebuilt and in the `Running` state, the vertical scaling is completed.

> **Note:**
>
> - If the resource's `requests` field is modified during the vertical scaling process, because PD and TiKV use `Local PV`, they need to be scheduled back to the original node after the upgrade. At this time, if the original node does not have enough resources, the Pod ends up staying in the `Pending` status and thus impacts the service.
> - TiDB is a horizontally scalable database, so it is recommended to take advantage of it simply by adding more nodes rather than upgrading hardware resources like you do with a traditional database.
