dev/reference/security/privilege-system.md, before:

---
title: Privilege Management
summary: Learn how to manage the privilege.
category: reference
---

# Privilege Management

TiDB supports MySQL 5.7's privilege management system, including the syntax and privilege types. Starting with TiDB 3.0, support for SQL Roles is also available.

This document introduces privilege-related TiDB operations, privileges required for TiDB operations and implementation of the privilege system.

## Privilege-related operations

### Grant privileges

The `GRANT` statement grants privileges to the user accounts.

For example, use the following statement to grant the `xxx` user the privilege to read the `test` database.

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON test.* TO 'xxx'@'%';
```

Use the following statement to grant the `xxx` user all privileges on all databases:

```sql
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'xxx'@'%';
```

By default, `GRANT` statements will return an error if the user specified does not exist. This behavior depends on if the SQL Mode `NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER` is specified:

```sql
mysql> SET sql_mode=DEFAULT;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT @@sql_mode;
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| @@sql_mode                                                                                                                                |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
Empty set (0.00 sec)

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON test.* TO 'idontexist';
ERROR 1105 (HY000): You are not allowed to create a user with GRANT

mysql> SELECT user,host,password FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
Empty set (0.00 sec)
```

In the following example, the user `idontexist` is automatically created with an empty password because the SQL Mode `NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER` was not set. This is **not recommended** since it presents a security risk: miss-spelling a username will result in a new user created with an empty password:

```sql
mysql> SET @@sql_mode='ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT @@sql_mode;
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| @@sql_mode                                                                                                            |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
Empty set (0.00 sec)

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON test.* TO 'idontexist';
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.05 sec)

mysql> SELECT user,host,password FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
+------------+------+----------+
| user       | host | password |
+------------+------+----------+
| idontexist | %    |          |
+------------+------+----------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> **Note:**
>
> Granting privileges to a database or table does not check if the database or table exists.

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM test.xxxx;
ERROR 1146 (42S02): Table 'test.xxxx' doesn't exist

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON test.xxxx TO xxxx;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT user,host FROM mysql.tables_priv WHERE user='xxxx';
+------|------+
| user | host |
+------|------+
| xxxx | %    |
+------|------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

You can use fuzzy matching to grant privileges to databases and tables.

```sql
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `te%`.* TO genius;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT user,host,db FROM mysql.db WHERE user='genius';
+--------|------|-----+
| user   | host | db  |
+--------|------|-----+
| genius | %    | te% |
+--------|------|-----+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

In this example, because of the `%` in `te%`, all the databases starting with `te` are granted the privilege.

### Revoke privileges

The `REVOKE` statement enables system administrators to revoke privileges from the user accounts.

The `REVOKE` statement corresponds with the `REVOKE` statement:

```sql
REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES ON `test`.* FROM 'genius'@'localhost';
```

> **Note:**
>
> To revoke privileges, you need the exact match. If the matching result cannot be found, an error will be displayed:

```sql
mysql> REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES ON `te%`.* FROM 'genius'@'%';
ERROR 1141 (42000): There is no such grant defined for user 'genius' on host '%'
```

About fuzzy matching, escape, string and identifier:

```sql
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `te\%`.* TO 'genius'@'localhost';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

This example uses exact match to find the database named `te%`. Note that the `%` uses the `\` escape character so that `%` is not considered as a wildcard.

A string is enclosed in single quotation marks(''), while an identifier is enclosed in backticks (``). See the differences below:

```sql
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON 'test'.* TO 'genius'@'localhost';
ERROR 1064 (42000): You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the
manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right
syntax to use near ''test'.* to 'genius'@'localhost'' at line 1

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `test`.* TO 'genius'@'localhost';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

If you want to use special keywords as table names, enclose them in backticks (``). For example:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE `select` (id int);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.27 sec)
```

### Check privileges granted to users

You can use the `SHOW GRANTS` statement to see what privileges are granted to a user. For example:

```sql
SHOW GRANTS; -- show grants for the current user
SHOW GRANTS FOR 'root'@'%'; -- show grants for a specific user
```

To be more precise, you can check the privilege information in the `Grant` table. For example, you can use the following steps to check if the `test@%` user has the `Insert` privilege on `db1.t`:

1. Check if `test@%` has global `Insert` privilege:

    ```sql
    SELECT Insert_priv FROM mysql.user WHERE user='test' AND host='%';
    ```

2. If not, check if `test@%` has database-level `Insert` privilege at `db1`:

    ```sql
    SELECT Insert_priv FROM mysql.db WHERE user='test' AND host='%';
    ```

3. If the result is still empty, check whether `test@%` has table-level `Insert` privilege at `db1.t`:

    ```sql
    SELECT table_priv FROM mysql.tables_priv WHERE user='test' AND host='%' AND db='db1';
    ```

## Privileges required for TiDB operations

You can check privileges of TiDB users in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.USER_PRIVILEGES` table.

| Privilege type       |  Privilege variable    | Privilege description                 |
| :------------ | :------------ | :---------------------- |
| ALL            | `AllPriv`        | All the privileges                 |
| Drop           | `DropPriv`      | Deletes a schema or table        |
| Index          | `IndexPriv`      | Creates or deletes an index          |
| Alter          | `AlterPriv`      | Executes the `ALTER` statement          |
| Super          | `SuperPriv`      | All the privileges                 |
| Grant          | `GrantPriv`      | Grants another user a privilege         |
| Create         | `CreatePriv`     | Creates a schema or table        |
| Select         | `SelectPriv`     | Reads the table data               |
| Insert         | `InsertPriv`     | Inserts data to a table             |
| Update         | `UpdatePriv`     | Updates the table data             |
| Delete         | `DeletePriv`     | Deleted the table data             |
| Trigger        | `TriggerPriv`    | /                 |
| Process        | `ProcessPriv`    | Displays the running task       |
| Execute        | `ExecutePriv`    | Executes the `EXECUTE` statement       |
| Drop Role      | `DropRolePriv`   | Executes `DROP ROLE`           |
| Show View      | `ShowViewPriv`   | Executes `SHOW CREATE VIEW`    |
| References     | `ReferencesPriv` | /                |
| Create View    | `CreateViewPriv` | Creates a View                 |
| Create User    | `CreateUserPriv` | Creates a user                |
| Create Role    | `CreateRolePriv` | Executes `CREATE ROLE`         |
| Show Databases | `ShowDBPriv`     | Shows the table status in the database |

### ALTER

- For all `ALTER` statements, users must have the `ALTER` privilege for the corresponding table.
- For statements except `ALTER...DROP` and `ALTER...RENAME TO`, users must have the `INSERT` and `CREATE` privileges for the corresponding table.
- For the `ALTER...DROP` statement, users must have the `DROP` privilege for the corresponding table.
- For the `ALTER...RENAME TO` statement, users must have the `DROP` privilege for the table before renaming, and the `CREATE` and `INSERT` privileges for the table after renaming.

> **Note:**
>
> In MySQL 5.7 documentation, users need `INSERT` and `CREATE` privileges to perform the `ALTER` operation on a table. But in reality for MySQL 5.7.25, only the `ALTER` privilege is required in this case. Currently, the `ALTER` privilege in TiDB is consistent with the actual behavior in MySQL.

### CREATE DATABASE

Requires the `CREATE` privilege for the database.

### CREATE INDEX

Requires the `INDEX` privilege for the table.

### CREATE TABLE

Requires the `CREATE` privilege for the table.

To execute the `CREATE TABLE...LIKE...` statement, the `SELECT` privilege for the table is required.

### CREATE VIEW

Requires the `CREATE VIEW` privilege.

> **Note:**
>
> If the current user is not the user that creates the View, both the `CREATE VIEW` and `SUPER` privileges are required.

### DROP DATABASE

Requires the `DROP` privilege for the table.

### DROP INDEX

Requires the `INDEX` privilege for the table.

### DROP TABLES

Requires the `DROP` privilege for the table.

### TRUNCATE TABLE

Requires the `DROP` privilege for the table.

### RENAME TABLE

Requires the `ALTER` and `DROP` privileges for the table before renaming and the `CREATE` and `INSERT` privileges for the table after renaming.

### ANALYZE TABLE

Requires the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges for the table.

### SHOW

`SHOW CREATE TABLE` requires any single privilege to the table.

`SHOW CREATE VIEW` requires the `SHOW VIEW` privilege.

### CREATE ROLE/USER

`CREATE ROLE` requires the `CREATE ROLE` privilege.

`CREATE USER` requires the `CREATE USER` privilege.

### DROP ROLE/USER

`DROP ROLE` requires the `DROP ROLE` privilege.

`DROP USER` requires the `CREATE USER` privilege.

### ALTER USER

Requires the `CREATE USER` privilege.

### GRANT

Requires the `GRANT` privilege with the privileges granted by `GRANT`.

### REVOKE

Requires the `SUPER` privilege.

## Implementation of the privilege system

### Grant table

The following system tables are special because all the privilege-related data is stored in them:

- `mysql.user` (user account, global privilege)
- `mysql.db` (database-level privilege)
- `mysql.tables_priv` (table-level privilege)
- `mysql.columns_priv` (column-level privilege; not currently supported)

These tables contain the effective range and privilege information of the data. For example, in the `mysql.user` table:

```sql
mysql> SELECT User,Host,Select_priv,Insert_priv FROM mysql.user LIMIT 1;
+------|------|-------------|-------------+
| User | Host | Select_priv | Insert_priv |
+------|------|-------------|-------------+
| root | %    | Y           | Y           |
+------|------|-------------|-------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

In this record, `Host` and `User` determine that the connection request sent by the `root` user from any host (`%`) can be accepted. `Select_priv` and `Insert_priv` mean that the user has global `Select` and `Insert` privilege. The effective range in the `mysql.user` table is global.

`Host` and `User` in `mysql.db` determine which databases users can access. The effective range is the database.

In theory, all privilege-related operations can be done directly by the CRUD operations on the grant table.

On the implementation level, only a layer of syntactic sugar is added. For example, you can use the following command to remove a user:

```sql
DELETE FROM mysql.user WHERE user='test';
```

However, the recommended usage is with `DROP USER`:

```sql
DROP USER 'test';
```

### Connection verification

When the client sends a connection request, TiDB server will verify the login operation. TiDB server first checks the `mysql.user` table. If a record of `User` and `Host` matches the connection request, TiDB server then verifies the `Password`.

User identity is based on two pieces of information: `Host`, the host that initiates the connection, and `User`, the user name. If the user name is not empty, the exact match of user named is a must.

`User`+`Host` may match several rows in `user` table. To deal with this scenario, the rows in the `user` table are sorted. The table rows will be checked one by one when the client connects; the first matched row will be used to verify. When sorting, Host is ranked before User.

### Request verification

When the connection is successful, the request verification process checks whether the operation has the privilege.

For database-related requests (`INSERT`, `UPDATE`), the request verification process first checks the user’s global privileges in the `mysql.user` table. If the privilege is granted, you can access directly. If not, check the `mysql.db` table.

The `user` table has global privileges regardless of the default database. For example, the `DELETE` privilege in `user` can apply to any row, table, or database.

In the `db` table, an empty user is to match the anonymous user name. Wildcards are not allowed in the `User` column. The value for the `Host` and `Db` columns can use `%` and `_`, which can use pattern matching.

Data in the `user` and `db` tables is also sorted when loaded into memory.

The use of `%` in `tables_priv` and `columns_priv` is similar, but column value in `Db`, `Table_name` and `Column_name` cannot contain `%`. The sorting is also similar when loaded.

### Time of effect

When TiDB starts, some privilege-check tables are loaded into memory, and then the cached data is used to verify the privileges. Executing privilege management statements such as `GRANT`, `REVOKE`, `CREATE USER`, `DROP USER` will take effect immediately.

Manually editing tables such as `mysql.user` with statements such as `INSERT`, `DELETE`, `UPDATE` will not take effect immediately. This behavior is compatible with MySQL, and privilege cache can be updated with the following statement:

```sql
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

### Limitations and constraints

Currently, the following privileges are not checked yet because they are less frequently used:

- FILE
- USAGE
- SHUTDOWN
- EXECUTE
- PROCESS
- INDEX
- ...

> **Note:**
>
> Column-level privileges are not implemented at this stage.

Commit message:

reference/security: update 2.1 advice (#1255)
* reference/security: update 2.1 advice

Does not support ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY.
Remove an example that shows bad practice.
Remove advice about direct edits to privilege tables.

dev/reference/security/privilege-system.md, after:

---
title: Privilege Management
summary: Learn how to manage the privilege.
category: reference
---

# Privilege Management

TiDB supports MySQL 5.7's privilege management system, including the syntax and privilege types. Starting with TiDB 3.0, support for SQL Roles is also available.

This document introduces privilege-related TiDB operations, privileges required for TiDB operations and implementation of the privilege system.

## Privilege-related operations

### Grant privileges

The `GRANT` statement grants privileges to the user accounts.

For example, use the following statement to grant the `xxx` user the privilege to read the `test` database.

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON test.* TO 'xxx'@'%';
```

Use the following statement to grant the `xxx` user all privileges on all databases:

```sql
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'xxx'@'%';
```

By default, `GRANT` statements will return an error if the user specified does not exist. This behavior depends on if the SQL Mode `NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER` is specified:

```sql
mysql> SET sql_mode=DEFAULT;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT @@sql_mode;
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| @@sql_mode                                                                                                                                |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
Empty set (0.00 sec)

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON test.* TO 'idontexist';
ERROR 1105 (HY000): You are not allowed to create a user with GRANT

mysql> SELECT user,host,password FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
Empty set (0.00 sec)
```

In the following example, the user `idontexist` is automatically created with an empty password because the SQL Mode `NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER` was not set. This is **not recommended** since it presents a security risk: miss-spelling a username will result in a new user created with an empty password:

```sql
mysql> SET @@sql_mode='ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT @@sql_mode;
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| @@sql_mode                                                                                                            |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
Empty set (0.00 sec)

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON test.* TO 'idontexist';
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.05 sec)

mysql> SELECT user,host,password FROM mysql.user WHERE user='idontexist';
+------------+------+----------+
| user       | host | password |
+------------+------+----------+
| idontexist | %    |          |
+------------+------+----------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> **Note:**
>
> Granting privileges to a database or table does not check if the database or table exists.

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM test.xxxx;
ERROR 1146 (42S02): Table 'test.xxxx' doesn't exist

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON test.xxxx TO xxxx;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT user,host FROM mysql.tables_priv WHERE user='xxxx';
+------|------+
| user | host |
+------|------+
| xxxx | %    |
+------|------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

You can use fuzzy matching to grant privileges to databases and tables.

```sql
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `te%`.* TO genius;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT user,host,db FROM mysql.db WHERE user='genius';
+--------|------|-----+
| user   | host | db  |
+--------|------|-----+
| genius | %    | te% |
+--------|------|-----+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

In this example, because of the `%` in `te%`, all the databases starting with `te` are granted the privilege.

### Revoke privileges

The `REVOKE` statement enables system administrators to revoke privileges from the user accounts.

The `REVOKE` statement corresponds with the `REVOKE` statement:

```sql
REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES ON `test`.* FROM 'genius'@'localhost';
```

> **Note:**
>
> To revoke privileges, you need the exact match. If the matching result cannot be found, an error will be displayed:

```sql
mysql> REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES ON `te%`.* FROM 'genius'@'%';
ERROR 1141 (42000): There is no such grant defined for user 'genius' on host '%'
```

About fuzzy matching, escape, string and identifier:

```sql
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `te\%`.* TO 'genius'@'localhost';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

This example uses exact match to find the database named `te%`. Note that the `%` uses the `\` escape character so that `%` is not considered as a wildcard.

A string is enclosed in single quotation marks(''), while an identifier is enclosed in backticks (``). See the differences below:

```sql
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON 'test'.* TO 'genius'@'localhost';
ERROR 1064 (42000): You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the
manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right
syntax to use near ''test'.* to 'genius'@'localhost'' at line 1

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `test`.* TO 'genius'@'localhost';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

If you want to use special keywords as table names, enclose them in backticks (``). For example:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE `select` (id int);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.27 sec)
```

### Check privileges granted to users

You can use the `SHOW GRANTS` statement to see what privileges are granted to a user. For example:

```sql
SHOW GRANTS; -- show grants for the current user
SHOW GRANTS FOR 'root'@'%'; -- show grants for a specific user
```

To be more precise, you can check the privilege information in the `Grant` table. For example, you can use the following steps to check if the `test@%` user has the `Insert` privilege on `db1.t`:

1. Check if `test@%` has global `Insert` privilege:

    ```sql
    SELECT Insert_priv FROM mysql.user WHERE user='test' AND host='%';
    ```

2. If not, check if `test@%` has database-level `Insert` privilege at `db1`:

    ```sql
    SELECT Insert_priv FROM mysql.db WHERE user='test' AND host='%';
    ```

3. If the result is still empty, check whether `test@%` has table-level `Insert` privilege at `db1.t`:

    ```sql
    SELECT table_priv FROM mysql.tables_priv WHERE user='test' AND host='%' AND db='db1';
    ```

## Privileges required for TiDB operations

You can check privileges of TiDB users in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.USER_PRIVILEGES` table.

| Privilege type       |  Privilege variable    | Privilege description                 |
| :------------ | :------------ | :---------------------- |
| ALL            | `AllPriv`        | All the privileges                 |
| Drop           | `DropPriv`      | Deletes a schema or table        |
| Index          | `IndexPriv`      | Creates or deletes an index          |
| Alter          | `AlterPriv`      | Executes the `ALTER` statement          |
| Super          | `SuperPriv`      | All the privileges                 |
| Grant          | `GrantPriv`      | Grants another user a privilege         |
| Create         | `CreatePriv`     | Creates a schema or table        |
| Select         | `SelectPriv`     | Reads the table data               |
| Insert         | `InsertPriv`     | Inserts data to a table             |
| Update         | `UpdatePriv`     | Updates the table data             |
| Delete         | `DeletePriv`     | Deleted the table data             |
| Trigger        | `TriggerPriv`    | /                 |
| Process        | `ProcessPriv`    | Displays the running task       |
| Execute        | `ExecutePriv`    | Executes the `EXECUTE` statement       |
| Drop Role      | `DropRolePriv`   | Executes `DROP ROLE`           |
| Show View      | `ShowViewPriv`   | Executes `SHOW CREATE VIEW`    |
| References     | `ReferencesPriv` | /                |
| Create View    | `CreateViewPriv` | Creates a View                 |
| Create User    | `CreateUserPriv` | Creates a user                |
| Create Role    | `CreateRolePriv` | Executes `CREATE ROLE`         |
| Show Databases | `ShowDBPriv`     | Shows the table status in the database |

### ALTER

- For all `ALTER` statements, users must have the `ALTER` privilege for the corresponding table.
- For statements except `ALTER...DROP` and `ALTER...RENAME TO`, users must have the `INSERT` and `CREATE` privileges for the corresponding table.
- For the `ALTER...DROP` statement, users must have the `DROP` privilege for the corresponding table.
- For the `ALTER...RENAME TO` statement, users must have the `DROP` privilege for the table before renaming, and the `CREATE` and `INSERT` privileges for the table after renaming.

> **Note:**
>
> In MySQL 5.7 documentation, users need `INSERT` and `CREATE` privileges to perform the `ALTER` operation on a table. But in reality for MySQL 5.7.25, only the `ALTER` privilege is required in this case. Currently, the `ALTER` privilege in TiDB is consistent with the actual behavior in MySQL.

### CREATE DATABASE

Requires the `CREATE` privilege for the database.

### CREATE INDEX

Requires the `INDEX` privilege for the table.

### CREATE TABLE

Requires the `CREATE` privilege for the table.

To execute the `CREATE TABLE...LIKE...` statement, the `SELECT` privilege for the table is required.

### CREATE VIEW

Requires the `CREATE VIEW` privilege.

> **Note:**
>
> If the current user is not the user that creates the View, both the `CREATE VIEW` and `SUPER` privileges are required.

### DROP DATABASE

Requires the `DROP` privilege for the table.

### DROP INDEX

Requires the `INDEX` privilege for the table.

### DROP TABLES

Requires the `DROP` privilege for the table.

### TRUNCATE TABLE

Requires the `DROP` privilege for the table.

### RENAME TABLE

Requires the `ALTER` and `DROP` privileges for the table before renaming and the `CREATE` and `INSERT` privileges for the table after renaming.

### ANALYZE TABLE

Requires the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges for the table.

### SHOW

`SHOW CREATE TABLE` requires any single privilege to the table.

`SHOW CREATE VIEW` requires the `SHOW VIEW` privilege.

### CREATE ROLE/USER

`CREATE ROLE` requires the `CREATE ROLE` privilege.

`CREATE USER` requires the `CREATE USER` privilege.

### DROP ROLE/USER

`DROP ROLE` requires the `DROP ROLE` privilege.

`DROP USER` requires the `CREATE USER` privilege.

### ALTER USER

Requires the `CREATE USER` privilege.

### GRANT

Requires the `GRANT` privilege with the privileges granted by `GRANT`.

### REVOKE

Requires the `SUPER` privilege.

## Implementation of the privilege system

### Grant table

The following system tables are special because all the privilege-related data is stored in them:

- `mysql.user` (user account, global privilege)
- `mysql.db` (database-level privilege)
- `mysql.tables_priv` (table-level privilege)
- `mysql.columns_priv` (column-level privilege; not currently supported)

These tables contain the effective range and privilege information of the data. For example, in the `mysql.user` table:

```sql
mysql> SELECT User,Host,Select_priv,Insert_priv FROM mysql.user LIMIT 1;
+------|------|-------------|-------------+
| User | Host | Select_priv | Insert_priv |
+------|------|-------------|-------------+
| root | %    | Y           | Y           |
+------|------|-------------|-------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

In this record, `Host` and `User` determine that the connection request sent by the `root` user from any host (`%`) can be accepted. `Select_priv` and `Insert_priv` mean that the user has global `Select` and `Insert` privilege. The effective range in the `mysql.user` table is global.

`Host` and `User` in `mysql.db` determine which databases users can access. The effective range is the database.

> **Note:**
>
> It is recommended to only update the privilege tables via the supplied syntax such as `GRANT`, `CREATE USER` and `DROP USER`. Making direct edits to the underlying privilege tables will not automatially update the privilege cache, leading to unpredictable behavior until `FLUSH PRIVILEGES` is executed.

### Connection verification

When the client sends a connection request, TiDB server will verify the login operation. TiDB server first checks the `mysql.user` table. If a record of `User` and `Host` matches the connection request, TiDB server then verifies the `Password`.

User identity is based on two pieces of information: `Host`, the host that initiates the connection, and `User`, the user name. If the user name is not empty, the exact match of user named is a must.

`User`+`Host` may match several rows in `user` table. To deal with this scenario, the rows in the `user` table are sorted. The table rows will be checked one by one when the client connects; the first matched row will be used to verify. When sorting, Host is ranked before User.

### Request verification

When the connection is successful, the request verification process checks whether the operation has the privilege.

For database-related requests (`INSERT`, `UPDATE`), the request verification process first checks the user’s global privileges in the `mysql.user` table. If the privilege is granted, you can access directly. If not, check the `mysql.db` table.

The `user` table has global privileges regardless of the default database. For example, the `DELETE` privilege in `user` can apply to any row, table, or database.

In the `db` table, an empty user is to match the anonymous user name. Wildcards are not allowed in the `User` column. The value for the `Host` and `Db` columns can use `%` and `_`, which can use pattern matching.

Data in the `user` and `db` tables is also sorted when loaded into memory.

The use of `%` in `tables_priv` and `columns_priv` is similar, but column value in `Db`, `Table_name` and `Column_name` cannot contain `%`. The sorting is also similar when loaded.

### Time of effect

When TiDB starts, some privilege-check tables are loaded into memory, and then the cached data is used to verify the privileges. Executing privilege management statements such as `GRANT`, `REVOKE`, `CREATE USER`, `DROP USER` will take effect immediately.

Manually editing tables such as `mysql.user` with statements such as `INSERT`, `DELETE`, `UPDATE` will not take effect immediately. This behavior is compatible with MySQL, and privilege cache can be updated with the following statement:

```sql
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

### Limitations and constraints

Currently, the following privileges are not checked yet because they are less frequently used:

- FILE
- USAGE
- SHUTDOWN
- EXECUTE
- PROCESS
- INDEX
- ...

> **Note:**
>
> Column-level privileges are not implemented at this stage.
