---
title: Use BR to Restore Cluster Data
summary: Learn how to restore data using BR commands
---

# Use BR to Restore Cluster Data

This document describes how to restore TiDB cluster data in the following scenarios:

- [Restore TiDB cluster snapshots](#restore-tidb-cluster-snapshots)
- [Restore a database](#restore-a-database)
- [Restore a table](#restore-a-table)
- [Restore multiple tables with table filter](#restore-multiple-tables-with-table-filter)
- [Restore backup data from external storage](#restore-backup-data-from-external-storage)
- [Restore incremental data](#restore-incremental-data)
- [Restore encrypted backup data](#restore-encrypted-backup-data)
- [Restore tables in the `mysql` schema](#restore-tables-in-the-mysql-schema)

If you are not familiar with backup and restore tools, it is recommended that you read the following documents to fully understand usage principles and methods of these tools:

- [BR Overview](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md)
- [Use BR Command-line for Backup and Restoration](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md)

If you need to restore data exported by Dumpling, CSV files, or Apache Parquet files generated by Amazon Aurora, you can use TiDB Lightning to import data to implement restore. For details, see [Use TiDB Lightning to restore full data](/backup-and-restore-using-dumpling-lightning.md#use-tidb-lightning-to-restore-full-data).

## Restore TiDB cluster snapshots

BR supports restoring snapshot backup on an empty cluster to restore the target cluster to the latest state when the snapshot is backed up.

Example: Restore the snapshot generated at `2022-01-30 07:42:23` from the `2022-01-30/` directory in the `backup-data` bucket of Amazon S3 to the target cluster.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-01-30/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restorefull.log
```

In the preceding command,

- `--ratelimit`: The maximum speed for **each TiKV** to perform a restoration task (unit: MiB/s)
- `--log-file` The target file for BR logging

During restoration, a progress bar is displayed in the terminal, as shown below. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the restoration is complete. To ensure data security, BR performs a check on the restored data.

```shell
br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-01-30/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restorefull.log
Full Restore <---------/...............................................> 17.12%.
```

## Restore a database or a table

BR supports restoring partial data of a specified database or table from backup data. This feature allows you to filter out unwanted data and back up only a specific database or table.

### Restore a database

To restore a database to the cluster, run the `br restore db` command. To get help on this command, run the `br restore db --help` command.

Example: Restore the `test` database from the `db-test/2022-01-30/` directory in the `backup-data` bucket of Amazon S3 to the target cluster.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore db \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --db "test" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/db-test/2022-01-30/" \
    --log-file restore_db.log
```

In the preceding command, `--db` specifies the name of the database to be restored, and other parameters are the same as those in [Restore TiDB cluster snapshots](#restore-tidb-cluster-snapshots).

> **Note:**
>
> When you restore the backup data, the database name specified by `--db` must be the same as the one specified by `-- db` in the backup command. Otherwise, the restoration fails. This is because the metafile of the backup data ( `backupmeta` file) records the database name, and you can only restore data to the database with the same name. The recommended method is to restore the backup data to the database with the same name in another cluster.

### Restore a table

To restore a single table to the cluster, run the `br restore table` command. To get help on this command, run the `br restore table --help` command.

Example: Restore `test`.`usertable` from the `table-db-usertable/2022-01-30/`directory in the `backup-data` bucket of Amazon S3 to the target cluster.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore table \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --db "test" \
    --table "usertable" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/table-db-usertable/2022-01-30/" \
    --log-file restore_table.log
```

In the preceding command, `--table` specifies the name of the table to be restored, and other parameters are the same as those in [Restore TiDB cluster snapshots](#restore-tidb-cluster-snapshots).

### Restore multiple tables with table filter

To restore multiple tables with more criteria, run the `br restore full` command and specify the [table filters](/table-filter.md) with `--filter` or `-f`.

Example: Restore data matching the `db*.tbl*` table from the `table-filter/2022-01-30/` directory in the `backup-data` bucket of Amazon S3 to the target cluster.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --filter 'db*.tbl*' \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/table-filter/2022-01-30/"  \
    --log-file restorefull.log
```

## Restore backup data from external storage

BR supports restoring data to Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), Azure Blob Storage, NFS, or other S3-compatible file storage services. For details, see the following documents:

- [Restore data on Amazon S3 using BR](/br/backup-storage-S3.md)
- [Restore data on Google Cloud Storage using BR](/br/backup-storage-gcs.md)
- [Restore data on Azure Blob Storage using BR](/br/backup-storage-azblob.md)

## Restore incremental data

> **Warning:**
>
> This is still an experimental feature. It is **NOT** recommended that you use it in the production environment.

Restoring incremental data is similar to restoring full data using BR. When restoring incremental data, make sure that all the data backed up before `last backup ts` has been restored to the target cluster. Also, because incremental restoration updates ts data, you need to ensure that there are no other writes during the restoration. Otherwise, conflicts might occur.

```shell
br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-01-30/incr"  \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restorefull.log
```

## Restore encrypted backup data

> **Warning:**
>
> This is still an experimental feature. It is **NOT** recommended that you use it in the production environment.

After encrypting the backup data, you need to pass in the corresponding decryption parameters to restore the data. Ensure that the decryption algorithm and key are correct. If the decryption algorithm or key is incorrect, the data cannot be restored.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore full\
    --pd ${PDIP}:2379 \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-01-30/" \
    --crypter.method aes128-ctr \
    --crypter.key 0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef
```

## Restore tables in the `mysql` schema

Starting from BR v5.1.0, when you perform a full backup, BR backs up the **system tables**. Before BR v6.2.0, under default configuration, BR only restores user data, but does not restore data in the system tables. Starting from BR v6.2.0, if the backup data contains system tables, and if you configure `--with-sys-table`, BR restores **data in some system tables**.

BR can restore data in **the following system tables**:

```
+----------------------------------+
| mysql.columns_priv               |
| mysql.db                         |
| mysql.default_roles              |
| mysql.global_grants              |
| mysql.global_priv                |
| mysql.role_edges                 |
| mysql.tables_priv                |
| mysql.user                       |
+----------------------------------+
```

**BR does not restore the following system tables**:

- Statistics tables (`mysql.stat_*`)
- System variable tables (`mysql.tidb`, `mysql.global_variables`)
- [Other system tables](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/master/br/pkg/restore/systable_restore.go#L31)

When you restore data related to system privileges, note the following:

- BR does not restore user data with `user` as `cloud_admin` and `host` as `'%'`. This user is reserved for TiDB Cloud. Do not create a user or role named `cloud_admin` in your environment, because the user privileges related to `cloud_admin` cannot be restored correctly.
- Before BR restores data, it checks whether the system tables in the target cluster are compatible with those in the backup data. "Compatible" means that all the following conditions are met:

    - The target cluster has the same system tables as the backup data.
    - The **number of columns** in the system privilege table of the target cluster is consistent with that of the backup data. The order of the columns can be different.
    - The columns in the system privilege table of the target cluster are compatible with those in the backup data. If the data type of the column is a type with length (for example, int or char), the length in the target cluster must be >= the length in the backup data. If the data type of the column is an enum type, the enum values in the target cluster must be a superset of the enum values in the backup data.

If the target cluster is not empty or the target cluster is not compatible with the backup data, BR returns the following information. You can remove `--with-sys-table` to skip restoring system tables.

```
#######################################################################
# the target cluster is not compatible with the backup data,
# br cannot restore system tables.
# you can remove 'with-sys-table' flag to skip restoring system tables
#######################################################################
```

To restore a table created by the user in the `mysql` schema (not system tables), you can explicitly include the table using [table filters](/table-filter.md#syntax). The following example shows how to restore the `mysql.usertable` table when BR performs a normal restoration.

```shell
br restore full -f '*.*' -f '!mysql.*' -f 'mysql.usertable' -s $external_storage_url --with-sys-table
```

In the preceding command,

- `-f '*.*'` is used to override the default rules
- `-f '!mysql.*'` instructs BR not to restore tables in `mysql` unless otherwise stated.
- `-f 'mysql.usertable'` indicates that `mysql.usertable` should be restored.

If you only need to restore `mysql.usertable`, run the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore full -f 'mysql.usertable' -s $external_storage_url --with-sys-table
```

## Restoration performance and impact

- TiDB fully uses TiKV CPU, disk IO, network bandwidth, and other resources when restoring data. Therefore, it is recommended that you restore backup data on an empty cluster to avoid affecting running services.
- The restoration speed depends much on cluser configuration, deployment, and running services. Generally, the restoration speed can reach 100 MB/s (per TiKV node).

> **Note:**
>
> The preceding test conclusions, based on simulation tests in many scenarios and verified in some customer sites, are worthy of reference. However, the restoration speed may vary depending on the scenarios. Therefore, you should always run the test and verify the test results.
