v1.0/op-guide/migration.md, before:

---
title: Migrate Data from MySQL to TiDB
category: operations
---

# Migrate Data from MySQL to TiDB

## Use the `mydumper`/`loader` tool to export and import all the data

You can use `mydumper` to export data from MySQL and `loader` to import the data into TiDB.

> **Note:**
>
> Although TiDB also supports the official `mysqldump` tool from MySQL for data migration, it is not recommended to use it. Its performance is much lower than `mydumper`/`loader` and it takes much time to migrate large amounts of data. `mydumper`/`loader` is more powerful. For more information, see [https://github.com/maxbube/mydumper](https://github.com/maxbube/mydumper).

### Export data from MySQL

Use the `mydumper` tool to export data from MySQL by using the following command:

```bash
./bin/mydumper -h 127.0.0.1 -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -F 64 -B test -T t1,t2 --skip-tz-utc -o ./var/test
```
In this command,

- `-B test`: means the data is exported from the `test` database.
- `-T t1,t2`: means only the `t1` and `t2` tables are exported.
- `-t 16`: means 16 threads are used to export the data.
- `-F 64`: means a table is partitioned into chunks and one chunk is 64MB.
- `--skip-tz-utc`: the purpose of adding this parameter is to ignore the inconsistency of time zone setting between MySQL and the data exporting machine and to disable automatic conversion.

> **Note:**
>
> On the Cloud platforms which require the `super privilege`, such as on the Aliyun platform, add the `--no-locks` parameter to the command. If not, you might get the error message that you don't have the privilege.

### Import data to TiDB

Use `loader` to import the data from MySQL to TiDB. See [Loader instructions](./tools/loader.md) for more information.

```bash
./bin/loader -h 127.0.0.1 -u root -P 4000 -t 32 -d ./var/test
```

After the data is imported, you can view the data in TiDB using the MySQL client:

```sql
mysql -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 -uroot

mysql> show tables;
+----------------+
| Tables_in_test |
+----------------+
| t1             |
| t2             |
+----------------+

mysql> select * from t1;
+----+------+
| id | age  |
+----+------+
|  1 |    1 |
|  2 |    2 |
|  3 |    3 |
+----+------+

mysql> select * from t2;
+----+------+
| id | name |
+----+------+
|  1 | a    |
|  2 | b    |
|  3 | c    |
+----+------+
```

### Best practice

To migrate data quickly, especially for huge amount of data, you can refer to the following recommendations.

- Keep the exported data file as small as possible and it is recommended keep it within 64M. You can use the `-F` parameter to set the value.
- You can adjust the `-t` parameter of `loader` based on the number and the load of TiKV instances. For example, if there are three TiKV instances, `-t` can be set to 3 * (1 ~ n). If the load of TiKV is too high and the log `backoffer.maxSleep 15000ms is exceeded` is displayed many times, decrease the value of `-t`; otherwise, increase it.

### A sample and the configuration

 - The total size of the exported files is 214G. A single table has 8 columns and 2 billion rows.
 - The cluster topology:
    - 12 TiKV instances: 4 nodes, 3 TiKV instances per node
    - 4 TiDB instances
    - 3 PD instances
 - The configuration of each node:
    - CPU: Intel Xeon E5-2670 v3 @ 2.30GHz
    - 48 vCPU [2 x 12 physical cores]
    - Memory: 128G
    - Disk: sda [raid 10, 300G] sdb[RAID 5, 2T]
    - Operating System: CentOS 7.3
 - The `-F` parameter of `mydumper` is set to 16 and the `-t` parameter of `loader` is set to 64.

**Results**: It takes 11 hours to import all the data, which is 19.4G/hour.

## Use the `syncer` tool to import data incrementally (optional)

The previous section introduces how to import all the history data from MySQL to TiDB using `mydumper`/`loader`. But this is not applicable if the data in MySQL is updated after the migration and it is expected to import the updated data quickly.

Therefore, TiDB provides the `syncer` tool for an incremental data import from MySQL to TiDB.

See [Download the TiDB enterprise toolset](#download-the-tidb-enterprise-toolset-linux) to download the `syncer` tool.

### Download the TiDB enterprise toolset (Linux)

```bash
# Download the enterprise tool package.
wget http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz
wget http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256

# Check the file integrity. If the result is OK, the file is correct.
sha256sum -c tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256

# Extract the package.
tar -xzf tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz
cd tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64
```

Assuming the data from `t1` and `t2` is already imported to TiDB using `mydumper`/`loader`. Now we hope that any updates to these two tables are synchronised to TiDB in real time.

### Obtain the position to synchronise

The data exported from MySQL contains a metadata file which includes the position information. Take the following metadata information as an example:
```
Started dump at: 2017-04-28 10:48:10
SHOW MASTER STATUS:
    Log: mysql-bin.000003
    Pos: 930143241
    GTID:

Finished dump at: 2017-04-28 10:48:11

```
The position information (`Pos: 930143241`) needs to be stored in the `syncer.meta` file for `syncer` to synchronize:

```bash
# cat syncer.meta
binlog-name = "mysql-bin.000003"
binlog-pos = 930143241
```

> **Note:**
>
> The `syncer.meta` file only needs to be configured once when it is first used. The position will be automatically updated when binlog is synchronised.

### Start `syncer`

The `config.toml` file for `syncer`:

```toml
log-level = "info"

server-id = 101

# The file path for meta:
meta = "./syncer.meta"
worker-count = 16
batch = 10

# The testing address for pprof. It can also be used by Prometheus to pull the syncer metrics.
status-addr = ":10081"

skip-sqls = ["ALTER USER", "CREATE USER"]

# Support whitelist filter. You can specify the database and table to be synchronised. For example:
# Synchronise all the tables of db1 and db2:
replicate-do-db = ["db1","db2"]

# Synchronise db1.table1.
[[replicate-do-table]]
db-name ="db1"
tbl-name = "table1"

# Synchronise db3.table2.
[[replicate-do-table]]
db-name ="db3"
tbl-name = "table2"

# Support regular expressions. Start with '~'  to use regular expressions.
# To synchronise all the databases that start with `test`:
replicate-do-db = ["~^test.*"]

# The sharding synchronising rules support wildcharacter.
# 1. The asterisk character (*, also called "star") matches zero or more characters,
#    for example, "doc*" matches "doc" and "document" but not "dodo";
#    asterisk character must be in the end of the wildcard word,
#    and there is only one asterisk in one wildcard word.
# 2. The question mark ? matches exactly one character.
#[[route-rules]]
#pattern-schema = "route_*"
#pattern-table = "abc_*"
#target-schema = "route"
#target-table = "abc"

#[[route-rules]]
#pattern-schema = "route_*"
#pattern-table = "xyz_*"
#target-schema = "route"
#target-table = "xyz"

[from]
host = "127.0.0.1"
user = "root"
password = ""
port = 3306

[to]
host = "127.0.0.1"
user = "root"
password = ""
port = 4000

```
Start `syncer`:

```bash
./bin/syncer -config config.toml
2016/10/27 15:22:01 binlogsyncer.go:226: [info] begin to sync binlog from position (mysql-bin.000003, 1280)
2016/10/27 15:22:01 binlogsyncer.go:130: [info] register slave for master server 127.0.0.1:3306
2016/10/27 15:22:01 binlogsyncer.go:552: [info] rotate to (mysql-bin.000003, 1280)
2016/10/27 15:22:01 syncer.go:549: [info] rotate binlog to (mysql-bin.000003, 1280)
```

### Insert data into MySQL

```bash
INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (4, 4), (5, 5);
```

### Log in TiDB and view the data

```sql
mysql -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 -uroot -p
mysql> select * from t1;
+----+------+
| id | age  |
+----+------+
|  1 |    1 |
|  2 |    2 |
|  3 |    3 |
|  4 |    4 |
|  5 |    5 |
+----+------+
```

`syncer` outputs the current synchronised data statistics every 30 seconds:

```bash
2017/06/08 01:18:51 syncer.go:934: [info] [syncer]total events = 15, total tps = 130, recent tps = 4,
master-binlog = (ON.000001, 11992), master-binlog-gtid=53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-74,
syncer-binlog = (ON.000001, 2504), syncer-binlog-gtid = 53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-17
2017/06/08 01:19:21 syncer.go:934: [info] [syncer]total events = 15, total tps = 191, recent tps = 2,
master-binlog = (ON.000001, 11992), master-binlog-gtid=53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-74,
syncer-binlog = (ON.000001, 2504), syncer-binlog-gtid = 53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-35
```

You can see that by using `syncer`, the updates in MySQL are automatically synchronised in TiDB.

Commit message:

*: change "synchronize" to "replicate" for migration related description (#1203)
* *: change wording for data migration related description

* rename a file

* capitalize some words

* fix an alias

* fix a dead link

* fix the dead link

* fix a typo

* capitalize two words

* try to fix a possible dead link

* capitalize a word

* add an alias and capitalize some words

* fix wording

* update wrong wording

* capitalize two words

* update the cases of some words

* resolve morgan's comments

* toc: remove unnecessary /

v1.0/op-guide/migration.md, after:

---
title: Migrate Data from MySQL to TiDB
category: operations
---

# Migrate Data from MySQL to TiDB

## Use the `mydumper`/`loader` tool to export and import all the data

You can use `mydumper` to export data from MySQL and `loader` to import the data into TiDB.

> **Note:**
>
> Although TiDB also supports the official `mysqldump` tool from MySQL for data migration, it is not recommended to use it. Its performance is much lower than `mydumper`/`loader` and it takes much time to migrate large amounts of data. `mydumper`/`loader` is more powerful. For more information, see [https://github.com/maxbube/mydumper](https://github.com/maxbube/mydumper).

### Export data from MySQL

Use the `mydumper` tool to export data from MySQL by using the following command:

```bash
./bin/mydumper -h 127.0.0.1 -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -F 64 -B test -T t1,t2 --skip-tz-utc -o ./var/test
```
In this command,

- `-B test`: means the data is exported from the `test` database.
- `-T t1,t2`: means only the `t1` and `t2` tables are exported.
- `-t 16`: means 16 threads are used to export the data.
- `-F 64`: means a table is partitioned into chunks and one chunk is 64MB.
- `--skip-tz-utc`: the purpose of adding this parameter is to ignore the inconsistency of time zone setting between MySQL and the data exporting machine and to disable automatic conversion.

> **Note:**
>
> On the Cloud platforms which require the `super privilege`, such as on the Aliyun platform, add the `--no-locks` parameter to the command. If not, you might get the error message that you don't have the privilege.

### Import data to TiDB

Use `loader` to import the data from MySQL to TiDB. See [Loader instructions](./tools/loader.md) for more information.

```bash
./bin/loader -h 127.0.0.1 -u root -P 4000 -t 32 -d ./var/test
```

After the data is imported, you can view the data in TiDB using the MySQL client:

```sql
mysql -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 -uroot

mysql> show tables;
+----------------+
| Tables_in_test |
+----------------+
| t1             |
| t2             |
+----------------+

mysql> select * from t1;
+----+------+
| id | age  |
+----+------+
|  1 |    1 |
|  2 |    2 |
|  3 |    3 |
+----+------+

mysql> select * from t2;
+----+------+
| id | name |
+----+------+
|  1 | a    |
|  2 | b    |
|  3 | c    |
+----+------+
```

### Best practice

To migrate data quickly, especially for huge amount of data, you can refer to the following recommendations.

- Keep the exported data file as small as possible and it is recommended keep it within 64M. You can use the `-F` parameter to set the value.
- You can adjust the `-t` parameter of `loader` based on the number and the load of TiKV instances. For example, if there are three TiKV instances, `-t` can be set to 3 * (1 ~ n). If the load of TiKV is too high and the log `backoffer.maxSleep 15000ms is exceeded` is displayed many times, decrease the value of `-t`; otherwise, increase it.

### A sample and the configuration

 - The total size of the exported files is 214G. A single table has 8 columns and 2 billion rows.
 - The cluster topology:
    - 12 TiKV instances: 4 nodes, 3 TiKV instances per node
    - 4 TiDB instances
    - 3 PD instances
 - The configuration of each node:
    - CPU: Intel Xeon E5-2670 v3 @ 2.30GHz
    - 48 vCPU [2 x 12 physical cores]
    - Memory: 128G
    - Disk: sda [raid 10, 300G] sdb[RAID 5, 2T]
    - Operating System: CentOS 7.3
 - The `-F` parameter of `mydumper` is set to 16 and the `-t` parameter of `loader` is set to 64.

**Results**: It takes 11 hours to import all the data, which is 19.4G/hour.

## Use the `syncer` tool to import data incrementally (optional)

The previous section introduces how to import all the history data from MySQL to TiDB using `mydumper`/`loader`. But this is not applicable if the data in MySQL is updated after the migration and it is expected to import the updated data quickly.

Therefore, TiDB provides the `syncer` tool for an incremental data import from MySQL to TiDB.

See [Download the TiDB enterprise toolset](#download-the-tidb-enterprise-toolset-linux) to download the `syncer` tool.

### Download the TiDB enterprise toolset (Linux)

```bash
# Download the enterprise tool package.
wget http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz
wget http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256

# Check the file integrity. If the result is OK, the file is correct.
sha256sum -c tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256

# Extract the package.
tar -xzf tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz
cd tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64
```

Assuming the data from `t1` and `t2` is already imported to TiDB using `mydumper`/`loader`. Now we hope that any updates to these two tables are replicated to TiDB in real time.

### Obtain the position to replicate

The data exported from MySQL contains a metadata file which includes the position information. Take the following metadata information as an example:
```
Started dump at: 2017-04-28 10:48:10
SHOW MASTER STATUS:
    Log: mysql-bin.000003
    Pos: 930143241
    GTID:

Finished dump at: 2017-04-28 10:48:11

```
The position information (`Pos: 930143241`) needs to be stored in the `syncer.meta` file for `syncer` to replicate:

```bash
# cat syncer.meta
binlog-name = "mysql-bin.000003"
binlog-pos = 930143241
```

> **Note:**
>
> The `syncer.meta` file only needs to be configured once when it is first used. The position will be automatically updated when binlog is replicated.

### Start `syncer`

The `config.toml` file for `syncer`:

```toml
log-level = "info"

server-id = 101

# The file path for meta:
meta = "./syncer.meta"
worker-count = 16
batch = 10

# The testing address for pprof. It can also be used by Prometheus to pull the syncer metrics.
status-addr = ":10081"

skip-sqls = ["ALTER USER", "CREATE USER"]

# Support whitelist filter. You can specify the database and table to be replicated. For example:
# Replicate all the tables of db1 and db2:
replicate-do-db = ["db1","db2"]

# Replicate db1.table1.
[[replicate-do-table]]
db-name ="db1"
tbl-name = "table1"

# Replicate db3.table2.
[[replicate-do-table]]
db-name ="db3"
tbl-name = "table2"

# Support regular expressions. Start with '~'  to use regular expressions.
# To replicate all the databases that start with `test`:
replicate-do-db = ["~^test.*"]

# The sharding replicating rules support wildcharacter.
# 1. The asterisk character (*, also called "star") matches zero or more characters,
#    for example, "doc*" matches "doc" and "document" but not "dodo";
#    asterisk character must be in the end of the wildcard word,
#    and there is only one asterisk in one wildcard word.
# 2. The question mark ? matches exactly one character.
#[[route-rules]]
#pattern-schema = "route_*"
#pattern-table = "abc_*"
#target-schema = "route"
#target-table = "abc"

#[[route-rules]]
#pattern-schema = "route_*"
#pattern-table = "xyz_*"
#target-schema = "route"
#target-table = "xyz"

[from]
host = "127.0.0.1"
user = "root"
password = ""
port = 3306

[to]
host = "127.0.0.1"
user = "root"
password = ""
port = 4000

```
Start `syncer`:

```bash
./bin/syncer -config config.toml
2016/10/27 15:22:01 binlogsyncer.go:226: [info] begin to sync binlog from position (mysql-bin.000003, 1280)
2016/10/27 15:22:01 binlogsyncer.go:130: [info] register slave for master server 127.0.0.1:3306
2016/10/27 15:22:01 binlogsyncer.go:552: [info] rotate to (mysql-bin.000003, 1280)
2016/10/27 15:22:01 syncer.go:549: [info] rotate binlog to (mysql-bin.000003, 1280)
```

### Insert data into MySQL

```bash
INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (4, 4), (5, 5);
```

### Log in TiDB and view the data

```sql
mysql -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 -uroot -p
mysql> select * from t1;
+----+------+
| id | age  |
+----+------+
|  1 |    1 |
|  2 |    2 |
|  3 |    3 |
|  4 |    4 |
|  5 |    5 |
+----+------+
```

`syncer` outputs the current replicated data statistics every 30 seconds:

```bash
2017/06/08 01:18:51 syncer.go:934: [info] [syncer]total events = 15, total tps = 130, recent tps = 4,
master-binlog = (ON.000001, 11992), master-binlog-gtid=53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-74,
syncer-binlog = (ON.000001, 2504), syncer-binlog-gtid = 53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-17
2017/06/08 01:19:21 syncer.go:934: [info] [syncer]total events = 15, total tps = 191, recent tps = 2,
master-binlog = (ON.000001, 11992), master-binlog-gtid=53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-74,
syncer-binlog = (ON.000001, 2504), syncer-binlog-gtid = 53ea0ed1-9bf8-11e6-8bea-64006a897c73:1-35
```

You can see that by using `syncer`, the updates in MySQL are automatically replicated in TiDB.
