v3.0/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/docker.md, before:

---
title: Deploy TiDB Using Docker
summary: Use Docker to manually deploy a multi-node TiDB cluster on multiple machines.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/op-guide/docker-deployment/']
---

# Deploy TiDB Using Docker

This page shows you how to manually deploy a multi-node TiDB cluster on multiple machines using Docker.

To learn more, see [TiDB architecture](/architecture.md) and [Software and Hardware Recommendations](/how-to/deploy/hardware-recommendations.md).

## Preparation

Before you start, make sure that you have:

+ Installed the latest version of [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker)
+ Pulled the latest images of TiDB, TiKV and PD from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com). If not, pull the images using the following commands:

    ```bash
    docker pull pingcap/tidb:latest
    docker pull pingcap/tikv:latest
    docker pull pingcap/pd:latest
    ```

## Multi nodes deployment

Assume we have 6 machines with the following details:

| Host Name | IP            | Services   | Data Path |
| --------- | ------------- | ---------- | --------- |
| **host1** | 192.168.1.101 | PD1 & TiDB | /data     |
| **host2** | 192.168.1.102 | PD2        | /data     |
| **host3** | 192.168.1.103 | PD3        | /data     |
| **host4** | 192.168.1.104 | TiKV1      | /data     |
| **host5** | 192.168.1.105 | TiKV2      | /data     |
| **host6** | 192.168.1.106 | TiKV3      | /data     |

### 1. Start PD

Start PD1 on the **host1**
```bash
docker run -d --name pd1 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd1" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd1" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380"
```

Start PD2 on the **host2**
```bash
docker run -d --name pd2 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd2" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd2" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.102:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.102:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380"
```

Start PD3 on the **host3**
```bash
docker run -d --name pd3 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd3" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd3" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.103:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.103:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380"
```

### 2. Start TiKV

Start TiKV1 on the **host4**
```bash
docker run -d --name tikv1 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.104:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv1" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

Start TiKV2 on the **host5**
```bash
docker run -d --name tikv2 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.105:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv2" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

Start TiKV3 on the **host6**
```bash
docker run -d --name tikv3 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.106:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv3" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

### 3. Start TiDB

Start TiDB on the **host1**

```bash
docker run -d --name tidb \
  -p 4000:4000 \
  -p 10080:10080 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  pingcap/tidb:latest \
  --store=tikv \
  --path="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

### 4. Use the MySQL client to connect to TiDB

Install the [MySQL client](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/) on **host1** and run:

```bash
$ mysql -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -u root -D test
mysql> show databases;
+--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| INFORMATION_SCHEMA |
| PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA |
| mysql              |
| test               |
+--------------------+
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

### How to customize the configuration file

The TiKV and PD can be started with a specified configuration file, which includes some advanced parameters, for the performance tuning.

Assume that the path to configuration file of PD and TiKV on the host is `/path/to/config/pd.toml` and `/path/to/config/tikv.toml`

You can start TiKV and PD as follows:

```bash
docker run -d --name tikv1 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  -v /path/to/config/tikv.toml:/tikv.toml:ro \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.104:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv1" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379" \
  --config="/tikv.toml"
```

```bash
docker run -d --name pd1 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  -v /path/to/config/pd.toml:/pd.toml:ro \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd1" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd1" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380" \
  --config="/pd.toml"
```

Commit message:

deploy: add warning messages (#1396)
* deploy: add warning messages

* add warning messages to v2.1 overview

* add more warnings

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-Authored-By: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update TOC.md

* Update TOC.md

v3.0/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/docker.md, after:

---
title: Deploy TiDB Using Docker
summary: Use Docker to manually deploy a multi-node TiDB cluster on multiple machines.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/op-guide/docker-deployment/']
---

# Deploy TiDB Using Docker

This page shows you how to manually deploy a multi-node TiDB cluster on multiple machines using Docker.

To learn more, see [TiDB architecture](/architecture.md) and [Software and Hardware Recommendations](/how-to/deploy/hardware-recommendations.md).

> **Warning:**
>
> This is for testing only. DO NOT USE in production! Please deploy TiDB with [our Ansible solution](/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/ansible.md) or [TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](/tidb-in-kubernetes/deploy/tidb-operator.md) in production.

## Preparation

Before you start, make sure that you have:

+ Installed the latest version of [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker)
+ Pulled the latest images of TiDB, TiKV and PD from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com). If not, pull the images using the following commands:

    ```bash
    docker pull pingcap/tidb:latest
    docker pull pingcap/tikv:latest
    docker pull pingcap/pd:latest
    ```

## Multi nodes deployment

Assume we have 6 machines with the following details:

| Host Name | IP            | Services   | Data Path |
| --------- | ------------- | ---------- | --------- |
| **host1** | 192.168.1.101 | PD1 & TiDB | /data     |
| **host2** | 192.168.1.102 | PD2        | /data     |
| **host3** | 192.168.1.103 | PD3        | /data     |
| **host4** | 192.168.1.104 | TiKV1      | /data     |
| **host5** | 192.168.1.105 | TiKV2      | /data     |
| **host6** | 192.168.1.106 | TiKV3      | /data     |

### 1. Start PD

Start PD1 on the **host1**
```bash
docker run -d --name pd1 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd1" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd1" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380"
```

Start PD2 on the **host2**
```bash
docker run -d --name pd2 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd2" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd2" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.102:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.102:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380"
```

Start PD3 on the **host3**
```bash
docker run -d --name pd3 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd3" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd3" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.103:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.103:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380"
```

### 2. Start TiKV

Start TiKV1 on the **host4**
```bash
docker run -d --name tikv1 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.104:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv1" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

Start TiKV2 on the **host5**
```bash
docker run -d --name tikv2 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.105:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv2" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

Start TiKV3 on the **host6**
```bash
docker run -d --name tikv3 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.106:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv3" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

### 3. Start TiDB

Start TiDB on the **host1**

```bash
docker run -d --name tidb \
  -p 4000:4000 \
  -p 10080:10080 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  pingcap/tidb:latest \
  --store=tikv \
  --path="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379"
```

### 4. Use the MySQL client to connect to TiDB

Install the [MySQL client](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/) on **host1** and run:

```bash
$ mysql -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -u root -D test
mysql> show databases;
+--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| INFORMATION_SCHEMA |
| PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA |
| mysql              |
| test               |
+--------------------+
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

### How to customize the configuration file

The TiKV and PD can be started with a specified configuration file, which includes some advanced parameters, for the performance tuning.

Assume that the path to configuration file of PD and TiKV on the host is `/path/to/config/pd.toml` and `/path/to/config/tikv.toml`

You can start TiKV and PD as follows:

```bash
docker run -d --name tikv1 \
  -p 20160:20160 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  -v /path/to/config/tikv.toml:/tikv.toml:ro \
  pingcap/tikv:latest \
  --addr="0.0.0.0:20160" \
  --advertise-addr="192.168.1.104:20160" \
  --data-dir="/data/tikv1" \
  --pd="192.168.1.101:2379,192.168.1.102:2379,192.168.1.103:2379" \
  --config="/tikv.toml"
```

```bash
docker run -d --name pd1 \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  -p 2380:2380 \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -v /data:/data \
  -v /path/to/config/pd.toml:/pd.toml:ro \
  pingcap/pd:latest \
  --name="pd1" \
  --data-dir="/data/pd1" \
  --client-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2379" \
  --advertise-client-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2379" \
  --peer-urls="http://0.0.0.0:2380" \
  --advertise-peer-urls="http://192.168.1.101:2380" \
  --initial-cluster="pd1=http://192.168.1.101:2380,pd2=http://192.168.1.102:2380,pd3=http://192.168.1.103:2380" \
  --config="/pd.toml"
```
