tiup/tiup-command-update.md, before:

---
title: tiup update
---

# tiup update

The `tiup update` command is used to update the installed components or TiUP itself.

## Syntax

```sh
tiup update [component1][:version] [component2..N] [flags]
```

- `[component1]`: the name of the component to update.
- `[version]`: the version to update. If this field is omitted, it means updating to the latest stable version of the component.
- `[component2...N]`: specifies updating multiple components or versions. If no component is specified, which means `[component1][:version] [component2..N]` is empty, you need to use the `--all` or the `--self` option together.

The update operation does not delete the old version. You can still specify using the old version during execution.

## Options

### --all

- If no component is specified, this option must be specified.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --force

- If the specified version of the component is already installed, the update operation is skipped by default. Specifying this option will have the installed version forcibly updated.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --nightly

- Updates the specified components to the nightly version. The `tiup update` command with this option is equivalent to the `tiup update <component>:nightly` command.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --self

- Updates TiUP itself.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

## Outputs

- If the update is successful, `Updated successfully!` is output.
- If target version does not exist, the `Error: version %s not supported by component %s` error is reported.

Commit message:

Batch add anchor links in TiUP command docs (#5593)
* add links

* add links

* `sh`-`shell`

* move to the last lines

Co-authored-by: TomShawn <41534398+TomShawn@users.noreply.github.com>

tiup/tiup-command-update.md, after:

---
title: tiup update
---

# tiup update

The `tiup update` command is used to update the installed components or TiUP itself.

## Syntax

```shell
tiup update [component1][:version] [component2..N] [flags]
```

- `[component1]`: the name of the component to update.
- `[version]`: the version to update. If this field is omitted, it means updating to the latest stable version of the component.
- `[component2...N]`: specifies updating multiple components or versions. If no component is specified, which means `[component1][:version] [component2..N]` is empty, you need to use the `--all` or the `--self` option together.

The update operation does not delete the old version. You can still specify using the old version during execution.

## Options

### --all

- If no component is specified, this option must be specified.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --force

- If the specified version of the component is already installed, the update operation is skipped by default. Specifying this option will have the installed version forcibly updated.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --nightly

- Updates the specified components to the nightly version. The `tiup update` command with this option is equivalent to the `tiup update <component>:nightly` command.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --self

- Updates TiUP itself.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

## Outputs

- If the update is successful, `Updated successfully!` is output.
- If target version does not exist, the `Error: version %s not supported by component %s` error is reported.

[<< Back to the previous page - TiUP Reference command list](/tiup/tiup-reference.md#command-list)
