tiup/tiup-command-uninstall.md, before:

---
title: tiup uninstall
---

# tiup uninstall

The `tiup uninstall` command is used to uninstall the installed components.

## Syntax

```sh
tiup uninstall <component1>:<version> [component2...N] [flags]
```

- `<component1>`: the name of the component to uninstall.
- `<version>`: the version to uninstall. If this field is omitted, all installed versions of the component are uninstalled. For security reasons, the `--all` option must be added when `<version>` is omitted, indicating that all versions of a component need to be uninstalled.
- `[component2...N]`: multiple components or versions to uninstall.

## Options

### --all

- Uninstalls all installed versions of the specified component(s). You must use this option when `<version>` is omitted.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --self

- Uninstalls TiUP itself. When this option is used, all data downloaded from the mirror is deleted, but the data generated by TiUP and its components is retained. The data is stored in the directory specified by the `TIUP_HOME` environment variable. If `TIUP_HOME` is not set, the default value is `~/.tiup/`.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

## Outputs

- If the command exits without any error, `Uninstalled component "%s" successfully!` is output.
- If neither `<version>` nor `--all` is specified, the `Use "tiup uninstall tidbx --all" if you want to remove all versions.` error is reported.

Commit message:

Batch add anchor links in TiUP command docs (#5593)
* add links

* add links

* `sh`-`shell`

* move to the last lines

Co-authored-by: TomShawn <41534398+TomShawn@users.noreply.github.com>

tiup/tiup-command-uninstall.md, after:

---
title: tiup uninstall
---

# tiup uninstall

The `tiup uninstall` command is used to uninstall the installed components.

## Syntax

```shell
tiup uninstall <component1>:<version> [component2...N] [flags]
```

- `<component1>`: the name of the component to uninstall.
- `<version>`: the version to uninstall. If this field is omitted, all installed versions of the component are uninstalled. For security reasons, the `--all` option must be added when `<version>` is omitted, indicating that all versions of a component need to be uninstalled.
- `[component2...N]`: multiple components or versions to uninstall.

## Options

### --all

- Uninstalls all installed versions of the specified component(s). You must use this option when `<version>` is omitted.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

### --self

- Uninstalls TiUP itself. When this option is used, all data downloaded from the mirror is deleted, but the data generated by TiUP and its components is retained. The data is stored in the directory specified by the `TIUP_HOME` environment variable. If `TIUP_HOME` is not set, the default value is `~/.tiup/`.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default and its default value is `false`. To enable this option, you can add this option to the command, and pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

## Outputs

- If the command exits without any error, `Uninstalled component "%s" successfully!` is output.
- If neither `<version>` nor `--all` is specified, the `Use "tiup uninstall tidbx --all" if you want to remove all versions.` error is reported.

[<< Back to the previous page - TiUP Reference command list](/tiup/tiup-reference.md#command-list)
