v2.1/tools/dm-worker-intro.md, before:

---
title: DM-worker Introduction
summary: Learn the features of DM-worker.
category: tools
---

# DM-worker Introduction

DM-worker is a tool used to synchronize data from MySQL/MariaDB to TiDB. 

It has the following features:

- Acts as a slave of any MySQL or MariaDB server
- Reads the binlog events from MySQL/MariaDB and persists them to the local storage
- A single DM-worker supports synchronizing the data of one MySQL/MariaDB instance to multiple TiDB instances
- Multiple DM-workers support synchronizing the data of multiple MySQL/MariaDB instances to one TiDB instance

## DM-worker processing unit

A DM-worker task contains multiple logic units, including relay log, Dumper, Loader, and binlog replication.

### Relay log

The relay log persistently stores the binlog data from the upstream MySQL/MariaDB and provides the feature of accessing binlog events for the binlog replication.

Its rationale and features are similar to the slave relay log of MySQL. For details, see [The Slave Relay Log](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/slave-logs-relaylog.html).

### Dumper

Dumper dumps the full data from the upstream MySQL/MariaDB to the local disk.

### Loader

Loader reads the files of Dumper and then loads these files to the downstream TiDB.

### Binlog replication/Syncer

Binlog replication/Syncer reads the binlog events of the relay log, transforms these events to SQL statements, and then applies these statements to the downstream TiDB.

## Privileges required by DM-worker

This section describes the upstream and downstream database users' privileges required by DM-worker, and the user privileges required by the respective processing unit.

### Upstream database user privileges

The upstream database (MySQL/MariaDB) user must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|----|----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `RELOAD` | Global |
| `REPLICATION SLAVE` | Global |
| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global |

If you need to synchronize the data from `db1` to TiDB, execute the following `GRANT` statement:

```sql
GRANT RELOAD,REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'
GRANT SELECT ON db1.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host';
```

If you also need to synchronize the data from other databases into TiDB, make sure the same privileges are granted to the user of the respective databases.

### Downstream database user privileges

The downstream database (TiDB) user must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|----|----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `INSERT` | Tables |
| `UPDATE`| Tables |
| `DELETE` | Tables |
| `CREATE` | Databases, tables |
| `DROP` | Databases, tables |
| `ALTER` | Tables |
| `INDEX` | Tables |

Execute the following `GRANT` statement for the databases or tables that you need to synchronize:

```sql
GRANT SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,CREATE,DROP,ALTER,INDEX  ON db.table TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host';
```

### Minimal privilege required by each processing unit

| Processing unit | Minimal upstream (MySQL/MariaDB) privilege | Minimal downstream (TiDB) privilege | Minimal system privilege |
|----|--------------------|------------|----|
| Relay log | `REPLICATION SLAVE` (reads the binlog)<br>`REPLICATION CLIENT` (`show master status`, `show slave status`) | NULL | Read/Write local files |
| Dumper | `SELECT`<br>`RELOAD` (flushes tables with Read lock and unlocks tables）| NULL | Write local files |
| Loader | NULL | `SELECT` (Query the checkpoint history)<br>`CREATE` (creates a database/table)<br>`DELETE` (deletes checkpoint)<br>`INSERT` (Inserts the Dump data) | Read/Write local files |
| Binlog replication | `REPLICATION SLAVE` (reads the binlog)<br>`REPLICATION CLIENT` (`show master status`, `show slave status`) | `SELECT` (shows the index and column)<br>`INSERT` (DML)<br>`UPDATE` (DML)<br>`DELETE` (DML)<br>`CREATE` (creates a database/table)<br>`DROP` (drops databases/tables)<br>`ALTER` (alters a table)<br>`INDEX` (creates/drops an index)| Read/Write local files |

> **Note:**
>
> These privileges are not immutable and they change as the request changes.

Commit message:

*: change "synchronize" to "replicate" for migration related description (#1203)
* *: change wording for data migration related description

* rename a file

* capitalize some words

* fix an alias

* fix a dead link

* fix the dead link

* fix a typo

* capitalize two words

* try to fix a possible dead link

* capitalize a word

* add an alias and capitalize some words

* fix wording

* update wrong wording

* capitalize two words

* update the cases of some words

* resolve morgan's comments

* toc: remove unnecessary /

v2.1/tools/dm-worker-intro.md, after:

---
title: DM-worker Introduction
summary: Learn the features of DM-worker.
category: tools
---

# DM-worker Introduction

DM-worker is a tool used to replicate data from MySQL/MariaDB to TiDB. 

It has the following features:

- Acts as a slave of any MySQL or MariaDB server
- Reads the binlog events from MySQL/MariaDB and persists them to the local storage
- A single DM-worker supports replicating the data of one MySQL/MariaDB instance to multiple TiDB instances
- Multiple DM-workers support replicating the data of multiple MySQL/MariaDB instances to one TiDB instance

## DM-worker processing unit

A DM-worker task contains multiple logic units, including relay log, Dumper, Loader, and binlog replication.

### Relay log

The relay log persistently stores the binlog data from the upstream MySQL/MariaDB and provides the feature of accessing binlog events for the binlog replication.

Its rationale and features are similar to the slave relay log of MySQL. For details, see [The Slave Relay Log](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/slave-logs-relaylog.html).

### Dumper

Dumper dumps the full data from the upstream MySQL/MariaDB to the local disk.

### Loader

Loader reads the files of Dumper and then loads these files to the downstream TiDB.

### Binlog replication/Syncer

Binlog replication/Syncer reads the binlog events of the relay log, transforms these events to SQL statements, and then applies these statements to the downstream TiDB.

## Privileges required by DM-worker

This section describes the upstream and downstream database users' privileges required by DM-worker, and the user privileges required by the respective processing unit.

### Upstream database user privileges

The upstream database (MySQL/MariaDB) user must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|----|----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `RELOAD` | Global |
| `REPLICATION SLAVE` | Global |
| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global |

If you need to replicate the data from `db1` to TiDB, execute the following `GRANT` statement:

```sql
GRANT RELOAD,REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'
GRANT SELECT ON db1.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host';
```

If you also need to replicate the data from other databases into TiDB, make sure the same privileges are granted to the user of the respective databases.

### Downstream database user privileges

The downstream database (TiDB) user must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|----|----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `INSERT` | Tables |
| `UPDATE`| Tables |
| `DELETE` | Tables |
| `CREATE` | Databases, tables |
| `DROP` | Databases, tables |
| `ALTER` | Tables |
| `INDEX` | Tables |

Execute the following `GRANT` statement for the databases or tables that you need to replicate:

```sql
GRANT SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,CREATE,DROP,ALTER,INDEX  ON db.table TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host';
```

### Minimal privilege required by each processing unit

| Processing unit | Minimal upstream (MySQL/MariaDB) privilege | Minimal downstream (TiDB) privilege | Minimal system privilege |
|----|--------------------|------------|----|
| Relay log | `REPLICATION SLAVE` (reads the binlog)<br>`REPLICATION CLIENT` (`show master status`, `show slave status`) | NULL | Read/Write local files |
| Dumper | `SELECT`<br>`RELOAD` (flushes tables with Read lock and unlocks tables）| NULL | Write local files |
| Loader | NULL | `SELECT` (Query the checkpoint history)<br>`CREATE` (creates a database/table)<br>`DELETE` (deletes checkpoint)<br>`INSERT` (Inserts the Dump data) | Read/Write local files |
| Binlog replication | `REPLICATION SLAVE` (reads the binlog)<br>`REPLICATION CLIENT` (`show master status`, `show slave status`) | `SELECT` (shows the index and column)<br>`INSERT` (DML)<br>`UPDATE` (DML)<br>`DELETE` (DML)<br>`CREATE` (creates a database/table)<br>`DROP` (drops databases/tables)<br>`ALTER` (alters a table)<br>`INDEX` (creates/drops an index)| Read/Write local files |

> **Note:**
>
> These privileges are not immutable and they change as the request changes.
