dev/reference/sql/character-set.md, before:

---
title: Character Set Support
summary: Learn about the supported character sets in TiDB.
category: reference
---

# Character Set Support

A character set is a set of symbols and encodings. A collation is a set of rules for comparing characters in a character set.

Currently, TiDB supports the following character sets:

```sql
mysql> SHOW CHARACTER SET;
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
| Charset | Description   | Default collation | Maxlen |
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
| utf8    | UTF-8 Unicode | utf8_bin          |      3 |
| utf8mb4 | UTF-8 Unicode | utf8mb4_bin       |      4 |
| ascii   | US ASCII      | ascii_bin         |      1 |
| latin1  | Latin1        | latin1_bin        |      1 |
| binary  | binary        | binary            |      1 |
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> **Note:**
>
> In TiDB, utf8 is treated as utf8mb4.

## Collation support

TiDB only supports binary collations. This means that unlike MySQL, in TiDB string comparisons are both case sensitive and accent sensitive:

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM information_schema.collations;
+----------------+--------------------+------+------------+-------------+---------+
| COLLATION_NAME | CHARACTER_SET_NAME | ID   | IS_DEFAULT | IS_COMPILED | SORTLEN |
+----------------+--------------------+------+------------+-------------+---------+
| utf8mb4_bin    | utf8mb4            |   46 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| latin1_bin     | latin1             |   47 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| binary         | binary             |   63 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| ascii_bin      | ascii              |   65 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| utf8_bin       | utf8               |   83 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
+----------------+--------------------+------+------------+-------------+---------+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW COLLATION WHERE Charset = 'utf8mb4';
+-------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| Collation   | Charset | Id   | Default | Compiled | Sortlen |
+-------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| utf8mb4_bin | utf8mb4 |   46 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
+-------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

For compatibility with MySQL, TiDB will allow other collation names to be used:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1 (a INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY auto_increment, b VARCHAR(10)) COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1, 'a');
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE b = 'a';
+---+------+
| a | b    |
+---+------+
| 1 | a    |
+---+------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE b = 'A';
Empty set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW CREATE TABLE t1\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
       Table: t1
Create Table: CREATE TABLE `t1` (
  `a` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `b` varchar(10) CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_bin DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`a`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4 COLLATE=utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci AUTO_INCREMENT=30002
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Database character set and collation

Each database has a character set and a collation. You can use the `CREATE DATABASE` statement to specify the database character set and collation:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE db_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [[DEFAULT] COLLATE collation_name]
```
Where `DATABASE` can be replaced with `SCHEMA`.

Different databases can use different character sets and collations. Use the `character_set_database` and  `collation_database` to see the character set and collation of the current database:

```sql
mysql> create schema test1 character set utf8 COLLATE uft8_general_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)

mysql> use test1;
Database changed
mysql> SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| @@character_set_database | @@collation_database |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| utf8                     | uft8_general_ci      |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> create schema test2 character set latin1 COLLATE latin1_general_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)

mysql> use test2;
Database changed
mysql> SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| @@character_set_database | @@collation_database |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| latin1                   | latin1_general_ci    |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

You can also see the two values in INFORMATION_SCHEMA:

```sql
SELECT DEFAULT_CHARACTER_SET_NAME, DEFAULT_COLLATION_NAME
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA WHERE SCHEMA_NAME = 'db_name';
```

## Table character set and collation

You can use the following statement to specify the character set and collation for tables:

```sql
CREATE TABLE tbl_name (column_list)
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]]

ALTER TABLE tbl_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]
```

For example:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1(a int) CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_general_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
```
The table character set and collation are used as the default values for column definitions if the column character set and collation are not specified in individual column definitions.

## Column character set and collation

See the following table for the character set and collation syntax for columns:

```sql
col_name {CHAR | VARCHAR | TEXT} (col_length)
    [CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]

col_name {ENUM | SET} (val_list)
    [CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]
```

## Connection character sets and collations

- The server character set and collation are the values of the `character_set_server` and `collation_server` system variables.

- The character set and collation of the default database are the values of the `character_set_database` and `collation_database` system variables.
    You can use `character_set_connection` and `collation_connection` to specify the character set and collation for each connection.
    The `character_set_client` variable is to set the client character set. Before returning the result, the `character_set_results` system variable indicates the character set in which the server returns query results to the client, including the metadata of the result.

You can use the following statement to specify a particular collation that is related to the client:

- `SET NAMES 'charset_name' [COLLATE 'collation_name']`

    `SET NAMES` indicates what character set the client will use to send SQL statements to the server. `SET NAMES utf8` indicates that all the requests from the client use utf8, as well as the results from the server.

    The `SET NAMES 'charset_name'` statement is equivalent to the following statement combination:

    ```sql
    SET character_set_client = charset_name;
    SET character_set_results = charset_name;
    SET character_set_connection = charset_name;
    ```

    `COLLATE` is optional, if absent, the default collation of the `charset_name` is used.

- `SET CHARACTER SET 'charset_name'`

    Similar to `SET NAMES`, the `SET NAMES 'charset_name'` statement is equivalent to the following statement combination:

    ```sql
    SET character_set_client = charset_name;
    SET character_set_results = charset_name;
    SET collation_connection = @@collation_database;
    ```

For more information, see [Connection Character Sets and Collations in MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/charset-connection.html).

Commit message:

dev/reference: update CHARSET and COLLATION info (#1266)
* dev/reference: update CHARSET and COLLATION info

Via: https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/1451/

* Update TOC.md

* add file to v3.0 folder

* update changes to v3.0

* address comment

dev/reference/sql/character-set.md, after:

---
title: Character Set Support
summary: Learn about the supported character sets in TiDB.
category: reference
---

# Character Set Support

A character set is a set of symbols and encodings. A collation is a set of rules for comparing characters in a character set.

Currently, TiDB supports the following character sets:

```sql
mysql> SHOW CHARACTER SET;
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
| Charset | Description   | Default collation | Maxlen |
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
| utf8    | UTF-8 Unicode | utf8_bin          |      3 |
| utf8mb4 | UTF-8 Unicode | utf8mb4_bin       |      4 |
| ascii   | US ASCII      | ascii_bin         |      1 |
| latin1  | Latin1        | latin1_bin        |      1 |
| binary  | binary        | binary            |      1 |
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Collation support

TiDB only supports binary collations. This means that unlike MySQL, in TiDB string comparisons are both case sensitive and accent sensitive:

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM information_schema.collations;
+----------------+--------------------+------+------------+-------------+---------+
| COLLATION_NAME | CHARACTER_SET_NAME | ID   | IS_DEFAULT | IS_COMPILED | SORTLEN |
+----------------+--------------------+------+------------+-------------+---------+
| utf8mb4_bin    | utf8mb4            |   46 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| latin1_bin     | latin1             |   47 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| binary         | binary             |   63 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| ascii_bin      | ascii              |   65 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
| utf8_bin       | utf8               |   83 | Yes        | Yes         |       1 |
+----------------+--------------------+------+------------+-------------+---------+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW COLLATION WHERE Charset = 'utf8mb4';
+-------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| Collation   | Charset | Id   | Default | Compiled | Sortlen |
+-------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| utf8mb4_bin | utf8mb4 |   46 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
+-------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

For compatibility with MySQL, TiDB will allow other collation names to be used:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1 (a INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY auto_increment, b VARCHAR(10)) COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1, 'a');
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE b = 'a';
+---+------+
| a | b    |
+---+------+
| 1 | a    |
+---+------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE b = 'A';
Empty set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW CREATE TABLE t1\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
       Table: t1
Create Table: CREATE TABLE `t1` (
  `a` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `b` varchar(10) CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_bin DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`a`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4 COLLATE=utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci AUTO_INCREMENT=30002
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Database character set and collation

Each database has a character set and a collation. You can use the following statements to specify the database character set and collation:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE db_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [[DEFAULT] COLLATE collation_name]

ALTER DATABASE db_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [[DEFAULT] COLLATE collation_name]
```

`DATABASE` can be replaced with `SCHEMA` here.

Different databases can use different character sets and collations. Use the `character_set_database` and  `collation_database` to see the character set and collation of the current database:

```sql
mysql> create schema test1 character set utf8 COLLATE uft8_general_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)

mysql> use test1;
Database changed
mysql> SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| @@character_set_database | @@collation_database |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| utf8                     | uft8_general_ci      |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> create schema test2 character set latin1 COLLATE latin1_general_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)

mysql> use test2;
Database changed
mysql> SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| @@character_set_database | @@collation_database |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| latin1                   | latin1_general_ci    |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

You can also see the two values in INFORMATION_SCHEMA:

```sql
SELECT DEFAULT_CHARACTER_SET_NAME, DEFAULT_COLLATION_NAME
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA WHERE SCHEMA_NAME = 'db_name';
```

## Table character set and collation

You can use the following statement to specify the character set and collation for tables:

```sql
CREATE TABLE tbl_name (column_list)
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]]

ALTER TABLE tbl_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]
```

For example:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1(a int) CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_general_ci;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
```

The database character set and collation are used as the default values for table definitions if the table character set and collation are not specified in individual column definitions.

## Column character set and collation

See the following table for the character set and collation syntax for columns:

```sql
col_name {CHAR | VARCHAR | TEXT} (col_length)
    [CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]

col_name {ENUM | SET} (val_list)
    [CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]
```

The table character set and collation are used as the default values for column definitions if the column character set and collation are not specified in individual column definitions.

## Connection character sets and collations

- The server character set and collation are the values of the `character_set_server` and `collation_server` system variables.

- The character set and collation of the default database are the values of the `character_set_database` and `collation_database` system variables.
    You can use `character_set_connection` and `collation_connection` to specify the character set and collation for each connection.
    The `character_set_client` variable is to set the client character set. Before returning the result, the `character_set_results` system variable indicates the character set in which the server returns query results to the client, including the metadata of the result.

You can use the following statement to specify a particular collation that is related to the client:

- `SET NAMES 'charset_name' [COLLATE 'collation_name']`

    `SET NAMES` indicates what character set the client will use to send SQL statements to the server. `SET NAMES utf8` indicates that all the requests from the client use utf8, as well as the results from the server.

    The `SET NAMES 'charset_name'` statement is equivalent to the following statement combination:

    ```sql
    SET character_set_client = charset_name;
    SET character_set_results = charset_name;
    SET character_set_connection = charset_name;
    ```

    `COLLATE` is optional, if absent, the default collation of the `charset_name` is used.

- `SET CHARACTER SET 'charset_name'`

    Similar to `SET NAMES`, the `SET NAMES 'charset_name'` statement is equivalent to the following statement combination:

    ```sql
    SET character_set_client = charset_name;
    SET character_set_results = charset_name;
    SET collation_connection = @@collation_database;
    ```

For more information, see [Connection Character Sets and Collations in MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/charset-connection.html).
