sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table-like.md, before:

---
title: CREATE TABLE LIKE | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of CREATE TABLE LIKE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table-like/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/create-table-like/']
---

# CREATE TABLE LIKE

This statement copies the definition of an existing table, without copying any data.

## Synopsis

**CreateTableStmt:**

![CreateTableLikeStmt](/media/sqlgram/CreateTableLikeStmt.png)

**LikeTableWithOrWithoutParen:**

![LikeTableWithOrWithoutParen](/media/sqlgram/LikeTableWithOrWithoutParen.png)

## Examples

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1 (a INT NOT NULL);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.13 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1),(2),(3),(4),(5);
Query OK, 5 rows affected (0.02 sec)
Records: 5  Duplicates: 0  Warnings: 0

mysql> SELECT * FROM t1;
+---+
| a |
+---+
| 1 |
| 2 |
| 3 |
| 4 |
| 5 |
+---+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> CREATE TABLE t2 LIKE t1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t2;
Empty set (0.00 sec)
```

## Pre-split region

If the table to be copied is defined with the `PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS` attribute, the table created using the `CREATE TABLE LIKE` statement inherits this attribute, and the Region on the new table will be split. For details of `PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS`, see [`CREATE TABLE` Statement](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table.md).

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is understood to be fully compatible with MySQL. Any compatibility differences should be [reported via an issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new/choose) on GitHub.

## See also

* [CREATE TABLE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table.md)
* [SHOW CREATE TABLE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-table.md)

Commit message:

sql-statements: use EBNF to render syntax diagrams - second batch (#5531)

sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table-like.md, after:

---
title: CREATE TABLE LIKE | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of CREATE TABLE LIKE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table-like/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/create-table-like/']
---

# CREATE TABLE LIKE

This statement copies the definition of an existing table, without copying any data.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
CreateTableLikeStmt ::=
    'CREATE' OptTemporary 'TABLE' IfNotExists TableName LikeTableWithOrWithoutParen

LikeTableWithOrWithoutParen ::=
    'LIKE' TableName
|   '(' 'LIKE' TableName ')'
```

## Examples

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1 (a INT NOT NULL);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.13 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1),(2),(3),(4),(5);
Query OK, 5 rows affected (0.02 sec)
Records: 5  Duplicates: 0  Warnings: 0

mysql> SELECT * FROM t1;
+---+
| a |
+---+
| 1 |
| 2 |
| 3 |
| 4 |
| 5 |
+---+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> CREATE TABLE t2 LIKE t1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t2;
Empty set (0.00 sec)
```

## Pre-split region

If the table to be copied is defined with the `PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS` attribute, the table created using the `CREATE TABLE LIKE` statement inherits this attribute, and the Region on the new table will be split. For details of `PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS`, see [`CREATE TABLE` Statement](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table.md).

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is understood to be fully compatible with MySQL. Any compatibility differences should be [reported via an issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new/choose) on GitHub.

## See also

* [CREATE TABLE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table.md)
* [SHOW CREATE TABLE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-table.md)
