dev/reference/tools/data-migration/deploy.md, before:

---
title: Synchronize Data Using Data Migration
summary: Use the Data Migration tool to synchronize the full data and the incremental data.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/tools/dm/practice/']
---

# Synchronize Data Using Data Migration

This guide shows how to synchronize data using the Data Migration (DM) tool.

## Step 1: Deploy the DM cluster

It is recommended to deploy the DM cluster using DM-Ansible. For detailed deployment, see [Deploy Data Migration Using DM-Ansible](/dev/how-to/deploy/data-migration-with-ansible.md).

> **Note:**
> 
> - For database passwords in all the DM configuration files, use the passwords encrypted by `dmctl`. If a database password is empty, it is unnecessary to encrypt it. See [Encrypt the upstream MySQL user password using dmctl](/dev/how-to/deploy/data-migration-with-ansible.md#encrypt-the-upstream-mysql-user-password-using-dmctl).
> - The user of the upstream and downstream databases must have the corresponding read and write privileges.

## Step 2: Check the cluster information

After the DM cluster is deployed using DM-Ansible, the configuration information is like what is listed below.

- The configuration information of related components in the DM cluster:

    | Component | Host | Port |
    |------| ---- | ---- |
    | dm_worker1 | 172.16.10.72 | 8262 |
    | dm_worker2 | 172.16.10.73 | 8262 |
    | dm_master | 172.16.10.71 | 8261 |

- The information of upstream and downstream database instances:

    | Database instance | Host | Port | Username | Encrypted password |
    | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
    | Upstream MySQL-1 | 172.16.10.81 | 3306 | root | VjX8cEeTX+qcvZ3bPaO4h0C80pe/1aU= |
    | Upstream MySQL-2 | 172.16.10.82 | 3306 | root | VjX8cEeTX+qcvZ3bPaO4h0C80pe/1aU= |
    | Downstream TiDB | 172.16.10.83 | 4000 | root | |

- The configuration in the DM-master process configuration file `{ansible deploy}/conf/dm-master.toml`:

    ```toml
    # Master configuration.

    [[deploy]]
    source-id = "mysql-replica-01"
    dm-worker = "172.16.10.72:8262"

    [[deploy]]
    source-id = "mysql-replica-02"
    dm-worker = "172.16.10.73:8262"
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > The `{ansible deploy}` in `{ansible deploy}/conf/dm-master.toml` indicates the directory where DM-Ansible is deployed. It is the directory configured in the `deploy_dir` parameter.

## Step 3: Configure the data synchronization task

The following example assumes that you need to synchronize all the `test_table` table data in the `test_db` database of both the upstream MySQL-1 and MySQL-2 instances, to the downstream `test_table` table in the `test_db` database of TiDB, in the full data plus incremental data mode.

Copy the `{ansible deploy}/conf/task.yaml.example` file and edit it to generate the `task.yaml` task configuration file as below:

```yaml
# The task name. You need to use a different name for each of the multiple tasks that
# run simultaneously.
name: "test"
# The full data plus incremental data (all) synchronization mode.
task-mode: "all"
# The downstream TiDB configuration information.
target-database:
  host: "172.16.10.83"
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: ""

# Configuration of all the upstream MySQL instances required by the current data synchronization task.
mysql-instances:
-
  # The ID of upstream instances or the replication group. You can refer to the configuration of `source_id` in the "inventory.ini" file or in the "dm-master.toml" file.
  source-id: "mysql-replica-01"
  # The configuration item name of the black and white lists of the name of the
  # database/table to be synchronized, used to quote the global black and white
  # lists configuration that is set in the global black-white-list below.
  black-white-list: "global"
  # The configuration item name of mydumper, used to quote the global mydumper configuration.
  mydumper-config-name: "global"

-
  source-id: "mysql-replica-02"
  black-white-list: "global"
  mydumper-config-name: "global"

# The global configuration of black and white lists. Each instance can quote it by the
# configuration item name.
black-white-list:
  global:
    do-tables:                        # The white list of upstream tables to be synchronized.
    - db-name: "test_db"              # The database name of the table to be synchronized.
      tbl-name: "test_table"          # The name of the table to be synchronized.

# mydumper global configuration. Each instance can quote it by the configuration item name.
mydumpers:
  global:
    mydumper-path: "./bin/mydumper"   # The file path of the mydumper binary.
    extra-args: "-B test_db -T test_table"  # Only dumps the "test_table" table of the "test_db" database. It can configure any mydumper argument.
```

## Step 4: Start the data synchronization task

To detect possible errors of data synchronization configuration in advance, DM provides the precheck feature:

- DM automatically checks the corresponding privileges and configuration while starting the data synchronization task.
- You can also use the `check-task` command to manually precheck whether the upstream MySQL instance configuration satisfies the DM requirements.

For details about the precheck feature, see [Precheck the upstream MySQL instance configuration](/tools/dm/precheck.md).

> **Note:**
>
> Before starting the data synchronization task for the first time, you should have got the upstream configured. Otherwise, an error is reported while you start the task.

1. Come to the dmctl directory `/home/tidb/dm-ansible/resources/bin/`.

2. Run the following command to start dmctl.

    ```bash
    ./dmctl --master-addr 172.16.10.71:8261
    ```

3. Run the following command to start the data synchronization tasks.

    ```bash
    # `task.yaml` is the configuration file that is edited above.
    start-task ./task.yaml
    ```

    - If the above command returns the following result, it indicates the task is successfully started.

        ```json
        {
            "result": true,
            "msg": "",
            "workers": [
                {
                    "result": true,
                    "worker": "172.16.10.72:8262",
                    "msg": ""
                },
                {
                    "result": true,
                    "worker": "172.16.10.73:8262",
                    "msg": ""
                }
            ]
        }
        ```

    - If you fail to start the data synchronization task, modify the configuration according to the returned prompt and then run the `start-task task.yaml` command to restart the task.

## Step 5: Check the data synchronization task

If you need to check the task state or whether a certain data synchronization task is running in the DM cluster, run the following command in dmctl:

```bash
query-status
```

## Step 6: Stop the data synchronization task

If you do not need to synchronize data any more, run the following command in dmctl to stop the task:

```bash
# `test` is the task name that you set in the `name` configuration item of
# the `task.yaml` configuration file.
stop-task test
```

## Step 7: Monitor the task and check logs

Assuming that Prometheus and Grafana are successfully deployed along with the DM cluster deployment using DM-Ansible, and the Grafana address is `172.16.10.71`, you can open <http://172.16.10.71:3000> in a browser, choose the DM dashboard to check the related monitoring metrics.

While the DM cluster is running, DM-master, DM-worker, and dmctl output the monitoring metrics information through logs. The log directory of each component is as follows:

- DM-master log directory: It is specified by the `--log-file` DM-master process parameter. If DM is deployed using DM-Ansible, the log directory is `{ansible deploy}/log/dm-master.log` in the DM-master node.
- DM-worker log directory: It is specified by the `--log-file` DM-worker process parameter. If DM is deployed using DM-Ansible, the log directory is `{ansible deploy}/log/dm-worker.log` in the DM-worker node.
- dmctl log directory: It is the same as the binary directory of dmctl.

Commit message:

*: change "synchronize" to "replicate" for migration related description (#1203)
* *: change wording for data migration related description

* rename a file

* capitalize some words

* fix an alias

* fix a dead link

* fix the dead link

* fix a typo

* capitalize two words

* try to fix a possible dead link

* capitalize a word

* add an alias and capitalize some words

* fix wording

* update wrong wording

* capitalize two words

* update the cases of some words

* resolve morgan's comments

* toc: remove unnecessary /

dev/reference/tools/data-migration/deploy.md, after:

---
title: Replicate Data Using Data Migration
summary: Use the Data Migration tool to replicate the full data and the incremental data.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/tools/dm/practice/']
---

# Replicate Data Using Data Migration

This guide shows how to replicate data using the Data Migration (DM) tool.

## Step 1: Deploy the DM cluster

It is recommended to deploy the DM cluster using DM-Ansible. For detailed deployment, see [Deploy Data Migration Using DM-Ansible](/dev/how-to/deploy/data-migration-with-ansible.md).

> **Note:**
> 
> - For database passwords in all the DM configuration files, use the passwords encrypted by `dmctl`. If a database password is empty, it is unnecessary to encrypt it. See [Encrypt the upstream MySQL user password using dmctl](/dev/how-to/deploy/data-migration-with-ansible.md#encrypt-the-upstream-mysql-user-password-using-dmctl).
> - The user of the upstream and downstream databases must have the corresponding read and write privileges.

## Step 2: Check the cluster information

After the DM cluster is deployed using DM-Ansible, the configuration information is like what is listed below.

- The configuration information of related components in the DM cluster:

    | Component | Host | Port |
    |------| ---- | ---- |
    | dm_worker1 | 172.16.10.72 | 8262 |
    | dm_worker2 | 172.16.10.73 | 8262 |
    | dm_master | 172.16.10.71 | 8261 |

- The information of upstream and downstream database instances:

    | Database instance | Host | Port | Username | Encrypted password |
    | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
    | Upstream MySQL-1 | 172.16.10.81 | 3306 | root | VjX8cEeTX+qcvZ3bPaO4h0C80pe/1aU= |
    | Upstream MySQL-2 | 172.16.10.82 | 3306 | root | VjX8cEeTX+qcvZ3bPaO4h0C80pe/1aU= |
    | Downstream TiDB | 172.16.10.83 | 4000 | root | |

- The configuration in the DM-master process configuration file `{ansible deploy}/conf/dm-master.toml`:

    ```toml
    # Master configuration.

    [[deploy]]
    source-id = "mysql-replica-01"
    dm-worker = "172.16.10.72:8262"

    [[deploy]]
    source-id = "mysql-replica-02"
    dm-worker = "172.16.10.73:8262"
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > The `{ansible deploy}` in `{ansible deploy}/conf/dm-master.toml` indicates the directory where DM-Ansible is deployed. It is the directory configured in the `deploy_dir` parameter.

## Step 3: Configure the data replication task

The following example assumes that you need to replicate all the `test_table` table data in the `test_db` database of both the upstream MySQL-1 and MySQL-2 instances, to the downstream `test_table` table in the `test_db` database of TiDB, in the full data plus incremental data mode.

Copy the `{ansible deploy}/conf/task.yaml.example` file and edit it to generate the `task.yaml` task configuration file as below:

```yaml
# The task name. You need to use a different name for each of the multiple tasks that
# run simultaneously.
name: "test"
# The full data plus incremental data (all) replication mode.
task-mode: "all"
# The downstream TiDB configuration information.
target-database:
  host: "172.16.10.83"
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: ""

# Configuration of all the upstream MySQL instances required by the current data replication task.
mysql-instances:
-
  # The ID of upstream instances or the replication group. You can refer to the configuration of `source_id` in the "inventory.ini" file or in the "dm-master.toml" file.
  source-id: "mysql-replica-01"
  # The configuration item name of the black and white lists of the name of the
  # database/table to be replicated, used to quote the global black and white
  # lists configuration that is set in the global black-white-list below.
  black-white-list: "global"
  # The configuration item name of mydumper, used to quote the global mydumper configuration.
  mydumper-config-name: "global"

-
  source-id: "mysql-replica-02"
  black-white-list: "global"
  mydumper-config-name: "global"

# The global configuration of black and white lists. Each instance can quote it by the
# configuration item name.
black-white-list:
  global:
    do-tables:                        # The white list of upstream tables to be replicated.
    - db-name: "test_db"              # The database name of the table to be replicated.
      tbl-name: "test_table"          # The name of the table to be replicated.

# mydumper global configuration. Each instance can quote it by the configuration item name.
mydumpers:
  global:
    mydumper-path: "./bin/mydumper"   # The file path of the mydumper binary.
    extra-args: "-B test_db -T test_table"  # Only dumps the "test_table" table of the "test_db" database. It can configure any mydumper argument.
```

## Step 4: Start the data replication task

To detect possible errors of data replication configuration in advance, DM provides the precheck feature:

- DM automatically checks the corresponding privileges and configuration while starting the data replication task.
- You can also use the `check-task` command to manually precheck whether the upstream MySQL instance configuration satisfies the DM requirements.

For details about the precheck feature, see [Precheck the upstream MySQL instance configuration](/tools/dm/precheck.md).

> **Note:**
>
> Before starting the data replication task for the first time, you should have got the upstream configured. Otherwise, an error is reported while you start the task.

1. Come to the dmctl directory `/home/tidb/dm-ansible/resources/bin/`.

2. Run the following command to start dmctl.

    ```bash
    ./dmctl --master-addr 172.16.10.71:8261
    ```

3. Run the following command to start the data replication tasks.

    ```bash
    # `task.yaml` is the configuration file that is edited above.
    start-task ./task.yaml
    ```

    - If the above command returns the following result, it indicates the task is successfully started.

        ```json
        {
            "result": true,
            "msg": "",
            "workers": [
                {
                    "result": true,
                    "worker": "172.16.10.72:8262",
                    "msg": ""
                },
                {
                    "result": true,
                    "worker": "172.16.10.73:8262",
                    "msg": ""
                }
            ]
        }
        ```

    - If you fail to start the data replication task, modify the configuration according to the returned prompt and then run the `start-task task.yaml` command to restart the task.

## Step 5: Check the data replication task

If you need to check the task state or whether a certain data replication task is running in the DM cluster, run the following command in dmctl:

```bash
query-status
```

## Step 6: Stop the data replication task

If you do not need to replicate data any more, run the following command in dmctl to stop the task:

```bash
# `test` is the task name that you set in the `name` configuration item of
# the `task.yaml` configuration file.
stop-task test
```

## Step 7: Monitor the task and check logs

Assuming that Prometheus and Grafana are successfully deployed along with the DM cluster deployment using DM-Ansible, and the Grafana address is `172.16.10.71`, you can open <http://172.16.10.71:3000> in a browser, choose the DM dashboard to check the related monitoring metrics.

While the DM cluster is running, DM-master, DM-worker, and dmctl output the monitoring metrics information through logs. The log directory of each component is as follows:

- DM-master log directory: It is specified by the `--log-file` DM-master process parameter. If DM is deployed using DM-Ansible, the log directory is `{ansible deploy}/log/dm-master.log` in the DM-master node.
- DM-worker log directory: It is specified by the `--log-file` DM-worker process parameter. If DM is deployed using DM-Ansible, the log directory is `{ansible deploy}/log/dm-worker.log` in the DM-worker node.
- dmctl log directory: It is the same as the binary directory of dmctl.
