v3.0/reference/tools/download.md, before:

---
title: Download
summary: Download the most officially maintained versions of TiDB enterprise tools.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/tools/download/']
---

# Download

This document collects the available downloads for most officially maintained versions of TiDB enterprise tools.

## TiDB-Binlog and Lightning

If you want to download the latest version of [TiDB Binlog](/reference/tidb-binlog-overview.md) or [Lightning](/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/overview.md), directly download the TiDB package, because both TiDB-Binlog and Lightning are included in the TiDB package.

In addition, the Kafka version of TiDB-Binlog is also provided.

| Package name | OS | Architecture | SHA256 checksum |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| [tidb-v3.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v3.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz) (stable TiDB-Binlog, Lightning) | Linux | amd64 |[tidb-v3.0-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v3.0-linux-amd64.sha256)|
| [tidb-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz) (unstable TiDB-Binlog, Lightning) | Linux | amd64 |[tidb-latest-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-latest-linux-amd64.sha256)|
| [tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.tar.gz) (the Kafka version of TiDB-Binlog) | Linux | amd64 |[tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.sha256)|

## DM (Data Migration)

If you want to download the latest version of [DM](/reference/tools/data-migration/overview.md), click the download link in the following table. You can also check the [DM Release](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/releases) page.

| Package name | OS | Architecture |  SHA256 checksum |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| [dm-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/dm-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz) | Linux | amd64 | [dm-latest-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/dm-latest-linux-amd64.sha256) |

## Syncer, Loader, and mydumper

If you want to download the latest version of [Syncer](/reference/tools/syncer.md), [Loader](/reference/tools/loader.md), or [mydumper](/reference/tools/mydumper.md), directly download the tidb-enterprise-tools package, because all these tools are included in this package.

| Package name | OS | Architecture | SHA256 checksum |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| [tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz) | Linux | amd64 | [tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256) |

This enterprise tools package includes all the following tools:

- Syncer
- Loader
- mydumper
- [binlogctl](/reference/tidb-binlog-overview.md#binlogctl-guide)
- ddl_checker
- [sync_diff_inspector](/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector.md)

Commit message:

dev/reference, v3.0/reference, v2.1/reference: update tidb lightning download link (#1337)
* update the download link for tidb lightning

* change the tag from latest to v2.1.0 in 2.1 doc

* change the tag from latest to v3.0.0 in v3.0 doc

v3.0/reference/tools/download.md, after:

---
title: Download
summary: Download the most officially maintained versions of TiDB enterprise tools.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/tools/download/']
---

# Download

This document collects the available downloads for most officially maintained versions of TiDB enterprise tools.

## TiDB Binlog

If you want to download the v3.0 version of [TiDB Binlog](/reference/tidb-binlog-overview.md), directly download the TiDB package, because TiDB Binlog is included in the TiDB package.

In addition, the Kafka version of TiDB Binlog is also provided.

| Package name | OS | Architecture | SHA256 checksum |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| [tidb-v3.0.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v3.0.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz) (TiDB Binlog) | Linux | amd64 |[tidb-v3.0.0-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v3.0.0-linux-amd64.sha256)|
| [tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.tar.gz) (the Kafka version of TiDB Binlog) | Linux | amd64 |[tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-binlog-kafka-linux-amd64.sha256)|

## TiDB Lightning

If you want to download the v3.0 version of [TiDB Lightning](/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/overview.md), click the download link in the following table.

| Package name | OS | Architecture |  SHA256 checksum |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| [tidb-toolkit-v3.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-toolkit-v3.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz) | Linux | amd64 | [tidb-toolkit-v3.0.0-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-toolkit-v3.0.0-linux-amd64.sha256) |

## DM (Data Migration)

If you want to download the latest version of [DM](/reference/tools/data-migration/overview.md), click the download link in the following table. You can also check the [DM Release](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/releases) page.

| Package name | OS | Architecture |  SHA256 checksum |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| [dm-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/dm-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz) | Linux | amd64 | [dm-latest-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/dm-latest-linux-amd64.sha256) |

## Syncer, Loader, and mydumper

If you want to download the latest version of [Syncer](/reference/tools/syncer.md), [Loader](/reference/tools/loader.md), or [mydumper](/reference/tools/mydumper.md), directly download the tidb-enterprise-tools package, because all these tools are included in this package.

| Package name | OS | Architecture | SHA256 checksum |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| [tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz) | Linux | amd64 | [tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.sha256) |

This enterprise tools package includes all the following tools:

- Syncer
- Loader
- mydumper
- [binlogctl](/reference/tidb-binlog-overview.md#binlogctl-guide)
- ddl_checker
- [sync_diff_inspector](/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector.md)
